4:1
This is how one should regard us: as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.

4:2
In this case, moreover, it is required of stewards
that one be found faithful.

4:3
But with me it is a very small thing
that I should be judged by you or by any human court.
Indeed, I do not even judge myself.

4:4
For I am not aware of anything against myself,
but I am not by this acquitted.
It is the Lord who judges me.

4:5
Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time,
before the Lord comes,
who will bring to light the things hidden in darkness
and will disclose the purposes of hearts.
And then each one will receive his praise from God.

4:6
Now these things,
brothers,
I have applied to myself and Apollos for your benefit,
so that in us you may learn the meaning of the saying, "Do not go beyond what is written,"
so that none of you will be puffed up in favor of one against another.

4:7
For who makes you different from anyone else?
What do you have that you did not receive?
And if you did receive it, why do you boast as though you had not received it?

4:8
Already you have all you want! Already you have become rich!
Without us you have begun to reign!
And I wish that you did reign,
so that we also might reign with you.

4:9
For I think,
that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all,
like men sentenced to death,
because we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men.

4:10
We are fools for the sake of Christ,
but you are wise in Christ! We are weak, but you
are strong! You are
honored, but we are dishonored.

4:11
To this very hour we go hungry
and thirsty and poorly clothed and roughly treated and homeless,

4:12
and we toil, working with our own hands.
When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;

4:13
when slandered, we encourage.
We have become like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things, to this very day.

4:14
I do not write these things to shame you,
but to admonish you as my beloved children.

4:15
For even if you have ten thousand guardians in Christ,
you do not have many fathers,
for in Christ Jesus I became your father through the gospel.

4:16
Therefore I urge you, be imitators of me.

4:17
For this reason I have sent Timothy to you,
who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord,
who will remind you of my ways in Christ Jesus,
just as I teach them everywhere in every church.

4:18
Now some of you have become arrogant, as though I were not coming to you.

4:19
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills,
and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people
but their power.

4:20
For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power.

4:21
What do you prefer?
Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of gentleness?

