7:1
For this Melchizedek,
king of Salem,
priest of God Most High,
who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings
and blessed him,

7:2
to whom Abraham also apportioned a tenth of everything,
first being translated king of righteousness
and then also king of Salem,
that is, king of peace,

7:3
without father,
without mother,
without genealogy,
having neither beginning of days,
nor end of life,
but made like the Son of God,
he remains a priest perpetually.

7:4
Now consider how great this one was,
to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the spoils.

7:5
And those from the sons of Levi who receive the priesthood have a commandment to collect a tenth from the people according to the law,
that is, from their brothers,
though they have come from the loins of Abraham;

7:6
but the one whose genealogy is not traced from them collected a tenth from Abraham,
and blessed the one who had the promises.

7:7
But beyond all dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater.

7:8
And here mortal men receive tithes,
but there one of whom it is testified that he lives.

7:9
And so to speak,
through Abraham even Levi who receives tithes paid a tenth,

7:10
for he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.

7:11
If then perfection was through the Levitical priesthood,
for on the basis of it the people received the law,
what further need was there for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek
and not be said to be according to the order of Aaron?

7:12
For when the priesthood is changed, of necessity there takes place a change of law also.

7:13
For the one about whom these things are said belonged to a different tribe,
from which no one has served at the altar;

7:14
for it is evident that our Lord has descended from Judah,
a tribe about which Moses spoke nothing concerning priests.

7:15
And this is even more abundantly evident,
if another priest arises according to the likeness of Melchizedek,

7:16
who has become such not according to a law of a fleshly commandment but according to the power of an indestructible life,

7:17
for it is testified:
You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.

7:18
For on the one hand a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and uselessness,

7:19
for the law perfected nothing,
but on the other hand there is an introduction of a better hope
through which we draw near to God.

7:20
And inasmuch as it was not without an oath
(for they indeed became priests without an oath,

7:21
but he with an oath through the one who said to him:
The Lord has sworn,
and will not change his mind,
You are a priest forever),

7:22
by so much more Jesus has become the guarantee of a better covenant.

7:23
And the former priests were many in number
because they were prevented by death from continuing;

7:24
but he, because he remains forever,
holds his priesthood permanently;

7:25
therefore he is able to save completely
those who draw near to God through him,
always living to intercede for them.

7:26
For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest,
holy, innocent, undefiled,
separated from sinners,
and exalted above the heavens;

7:27
who does not need daily,
like those high priests,
to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, then for those of the people
(for this he did once for all when he offered up himself);

7:28
for the law appoints men as high priests who have weakness,
but the word of the oath which came after the law
appoints a Son, made perfect forever.
