11:1
Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen;


11:2
for by it the people of old received their commendation.


11:3
By faith we understand that the ages were prepared by the word of God,
so that what is seen was not made from things that are visible.


11:4
By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain,
through which he was attested as righteous,
God testifying about his gifts,
and through faith though he died he still speaks.


11:5
By faith Enoch was taken up so that he would not see death,
and he was not found,
because God took him up;
for before his being taken up he was attested as having pleased God,


11:6
and without faith it is impossible
to please him, for the one who comes to God must believe that he exists
and of those who seek him
he is a rewarder.


11:7
By faith Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, in reverence prepared an ark for the salvation of his household,
by which he condemned the world,
and became an heir of the righteousness that is according to faith.


11:8
By faith Abraham when he was called obeyed
by going out to a place he was going to receive as an inheritance,
and he went out not knowing where he was going.


11:9
By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a foreign land,
dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob fellow heirs of the same promise;


11:10
for he was looking for the city which has foundations,
whose architect and builder is God.


11:11
By faith even Sarah herself received power for the conception of offspring
even beyond the proper time of life,
since she considered faithful the one who had promised;


11:12
therefore there were born from one man, and him as good as dead,
as many as the stars of heaven in number
and as the sand by the seashore which is innumerable.


11:13
All these died in faith
without having received the promises,
but having seen them from a distance and greeted them,
and having confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.


11:14
For those who say such things
make it clear that they are seeking a homeland.


11:15
And if they had been thinking of that land from which they went out,
they would have had opportunity to return;


11:16
but as it is they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one.
Therefore God is not ashamed of them
to be called their God,
for he has prepared a city for them.


11:17
By faith Abraham when he was tested offered up Isaac,
and he who had received the promises was offering up his only son,


11:18
he to whom it was said:
In Isaac your descendants shall be named,


11:19
reasoning that even from the dead to raise him
God was able;
from which he also
received him back as a type.


11:20
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau even concerning things to come.


11:21
By faith Jacob when dying blessed each of the sons of Joseph,
and worshiped leaning on the top of his staff.


11:22
By faith Joseph when he was dying mentioned the exodus of the sons of Israel,
and gave orders concerning his bones.


11:23
By faith Moses when he was born was hidden for three months by his parents,
because they saw the child was beautiful
and they were not afraid of the king's edict.


11:24
By faith Moses when he had grown up refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,


11:25
choosing rather to share ill-treatment with the people of God
than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin,


11:26
considering the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking toward the reward.


11:27
By faith he left Egypt,
not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing the one who is invisible.


11:28
By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood,
so that the destroyer of the firstborn would not touch them.


11:29
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land,
which the Egyptians attempting were swallowed up.


11:30
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after being encircled for seven days.


11:31
By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient,
having welcomed the spies in peace.


11:32
And what more shall I say?
For time would fail me telling of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets,


11:33
who through faith conquered kingdoms,
worked righteousness,
obtained promises,
shut the mouths of lions,


11:34
quenched the power of fire,
escaped the edge of the sword,
were made strong out of weakness,
became mighty in war,
put foreign armies to flight;


11:35
women received back their dead by resurrection;
but others were tortured,
not accepting release, so that a better
resurrection they might obtain;


11:36
and others experienced mockings and scourgings, yes also chains and imprisonment;


11:37
they were stoned,
they were sawn in two,
they died by murder of the sword,
they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins,
destitute, afflicted, mistreated,


11:38
of whom the world was not worthy,
wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and holes in the ground;


11:39
and all these having been commended through their faith did not receive what was promised,


11:40
because God had provided something better concerning us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect.
