12:1
Therefore since we also have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, laying aside every weight and
the sin which so easily entangles us, let us run with endurance the race set before us,

12:2
fixing our eyes on Jesus the author and perfecter of faith, who
for the joy set before him endured a cross, despising its shame, and
has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.

12:3
For consider the one who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself,
so that you will not grow weary and lose heart.

12:4
You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood
in your struggle against sin,

12:5
and you have forgotten the exhortation
which addresses you as sons, My son,
do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord,
nor be weary when you are reproved by him;

12:6
for whom the Lord loves he disciplines,
and he scourges every son whom he receives.

12:7
Endure for the sake of discipline;
God is dealing with you as with sons;
for what son is there whom a father does not discipline?

12:8
But if you are without discipline of which all have become partakers,
then you are illegitimate children and not sons.

12:9
Furthermore, our earthly fathers
were our discipliners and we respected them;
shall we not much more be subject
to the Father of spirits and live?

12:10
For they disciplined us for a short time as seemed good to them,
but he does so for our benefit so that we may share his holiness.

12:11
All discipline for the moment does not seem to be joyful but sorrowful,
yet afterward peaceful fruit
of righteousness it yields to those trained by it.

12:12
Therefore strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble,

12:13
and make straight paths for your feet,
so that what is lame may not be put out of joint,
but rather be healed.

12:14
Pursue peace with all people,
and the holiness without which no one will see the Lord,

12:15
seeing to it that no one falls short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble,
and by it many be defiled,

12:16
that there be no sexually immoral or godless person like Esau,
who sold his own birthright for a single meal.

12:17
For you know that even afterward when he desired to inherit the blessing he was rejected,
for he found no place for repentance,
although he sought it with tears.

12:18
For you have not come to what may be touched,
and to a blazing fire,
and to darkness,
and to gloom,
and to whirlwind,

12:19
and to the blast of a trumpet and a voice of words, which those who heard begged that no further word be spoken to them;

12:20
for they could not bear what was commanded:
If even a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned;

12:21
and so terrifying was the sight,
Moses said: I am full of fear and trembling.

12:22
But you have come to Mount Zion
and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem,
and to myriads of angels, a festive gathering

12:23
and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven,
and to God the judge of all,
and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,

12:24
and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.

12:25
See to it that you do not refuse the one who is speaking;
for if those did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth,
much less will we who turn away from him who warns from heaven;

12:26
whose voice shook the earth at that time,
but now he has promised saying:
Yet once more I will shake not only the earth
but also the heaven.

12:27
And this phrase Yet once more indicates the removal of things that are shaken as of things made,
so that the things which are not shaken may remain.

12:28
Therefore since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us have grace
through which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and awe,

12:29
for indeed our God is a consuming fire.
