2:1
Therefore you are without excuse,
O man, every one who judges!
for in passing judgment on the other, you condemn
yourself, for you
who judge practice the same things,
you who judge.

2:2
And we know that the judgment of God is according
to truth against those who practice such things.

2:3
Do you suppose this, O man who judges those
who practice such things and
yet do
the
same, that you will escape the judgment of God?

2:4
Or do you despise the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not
knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance?

2:5
But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God,

2:6
who will repay each person according to his works:

2:7
to those who by patience in doing
good seek glory and honor and immortality, eternal life;

2:8
but to those who are selfishly ambitious and disobey
the truth but obey unrighteousness,
wrath and fury,

2:9
tribulation and distress upon every human soul who does evil, the Jew
first and also the Greek;

2:10
but glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good, to the Jew
first and also to the Greek.

2:11
For there is no partiality with God.

2:12
For all who have sinned without
Torah will also perish without
Torah; and all who have sinned under Torah
will be judged through Torah.

2:13
For it is not the hearers of Torah who are righteous before God, but
the doers of Torah will be justified.

2:14
For when Gentiles who do not have Torah do by nature the things of the Torah,
these, not having Torah, are a law to themselves,

2:15
who show the work of the Torah written on their hearts, their
conscience bearing witness with
them, and their thoughts among themselves accusing
or even excusing them,

2:16
on the day when God judges the secrets of people according to my gospel through Christ Jesus.

2:17
But if you call yourself a Jew
and rely on the
Torah and boast in God

2:18
and know his will and
approve what is excellent, being instructed from the Torah,

2:19
and are confident that you are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness,

2:20
an instructor of the foolish,
a teacher of infants, having the embodiment of knowledge and truth in the Torah --

2:21
you then who teach another, do
you not teach yourself? You
who preach not to steal, do you steal?

2:22
You who say not to commit adultery, do
you commit
adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?

2:23
You who boast in the
Torah, do you dishonor God through your transgression of the Torah?

2:24
For "the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you," as it is written.

2:25
For circumcision indeed is of value if you practice
Torah; but if you are a transgressor
of Torah, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.

2:26
So if the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the Torah,
will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision?

2:27
And the one who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the Torah will judge you who, with the written code and
circumcision, are a transgressor of Torah.

2:28
For a person is not a Jew who is one
outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.

2:29
But a person is a Jew who is
one inwardly, and circumcision is of the heart, by the
Spirit, not by the letter, whose praise is not from people but from God.
