9:1
I am telling the truth in Christ, I am not lying,
with my conscience bearing me witness in the Holy Spirit,

9:2
that I have great sorrow
and unceasing grief in my heart.

9:3
For I could wish that I myself were accursed cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh,

9:4
who are Israelites,
to whom belong the adoption and the glory
and the covenants and the giving of the Torah
and the worship and the promises,

9:5
to whom belong the patriarchs,
and from whom is the Christ according to the flesh, who is
over all, God blessed forever. Amen.

9:6
But it is not as though the word of God has failed.
For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel,

9:7
and not all are children because they are Abraham's offspring,
but "Through Isaac shall your offspring be named."

9:8
That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God,
but the children of the promise are counted as offspring.

9:9
For this is the word of promise:
"At this time I will come,
and Sarah shall have a son."

9:10
And not only this,
but also when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our father Isaac --

9:11
though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might stand,

9:12
not because of works but because of him who calls, it was said to her, "The older will serve the younger."

9:13
As it is written,
"Jacob I loved,
but Esau I hated."

9:14
What then shall we say?
Is there injustice with God?
By no means!

9:15
For he says to Moses,
"I will have mercy on whom I have mercy,
and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion."

9:16
So then, it depends not on the one who wills or the one who runs,
but on God who has mercy.

9:17
For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, "For this very purpose I have raised you up,
that I might display my power in you,
and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth."

9:18
So then, he has mercy on whom he wills,
and he hardens whom he wills.

9:19
You will say to me then, "Why does he still find fault?
For who has resisted his will?"

9:20
O man, on the contrary,
who are you to talk back to God?
Will the thing formed say to the one who formed it,
"Why have you made me like this?"

9:21
Or does not the potter have authority over the clay,
to make from the same lump
one vessel for honorable use,
and another for dishonorable use?

9:22
What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known,
bore with great patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction,

9:23
and he did so to make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy,
which he prepared beforehand for glory --

9:24
even us whom he also called,
not only from among the Jews but also from among the Gentiles?

9:25
As he also says in Hosea,
"I will call those who were not my people, 'My people,'
and her who was not beloved, 'Beloved.'"

9:26
"And it shall be that in the place
where it was said to them,
'You are not my people,' there they will be called sons of the living God."

9:27
And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel:
"Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea,
only the remnant will be saved,

9:28
for the Lord will carry out his word on the earth, thoroughly and swiftly."

9:29
And as Isaiah foretold,
"If the Lord of Hosts had not left us offspring,
we would have become like Sodom,
and we would have been made like Gomorrah."

9:30
What then shall we
say? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained righteousness, that is, righteousness that comes from faith;

9:31
but Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not arrive at that law.

9:32
Why not? Because they did not pursue it by faith but as though it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone,

9:33
as it is written,
"Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense,
and the one who believes in him will not be put to shame."
