13:1
Let every person be subject to the governing authorities,
for there is no authority except from God,
and those that exist have been established by God.

13:2
Therefore whoever resists the authority has opposed the ordinance of God,
and those who have opposed it will bring judgment upon themselves.

13:3
For rulers are not a cause of fear for good conduct,
but for bad.
Do you want to have no fear of authority?
Do what is good,
and you will have its approval.

13:4
For it is God's servant for your good.
But if you do what is evil,
be afraid,
for it does not bear the sword in vain;
for it is God's servant, an avenger
who brings wrath upon the one who practices evil.

13:5
Therefore it is necessary to be in subjection, not only because of wrath
but also because of conscience.

13:6
For because of this you also pay taxes,
for they are God's ministers,
devoting themselves to this very thing.

13:7
Pay to all what is owed to them:
taxes to whom taxes are due, revenue to whom revenue is due,
respect to whom respect is due, honor to whom honor is due.

13:8
Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another;
for the one who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.

13:9
For the commandments, "You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,"
and any other commandment,
are summed up in this word: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."

13:10
Love does no harm to a neighbor;
therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.

13:11
And do this, knowing the time,
that it is already the hour for you to awaken from sleep;
for now salvation is nearer to us
than when we first believed.

13:12
The night is far gone,
and the day is near.
Let us therefore lay aside the works of darkness,
and let us put on the armor of light.

13:13
Let us walk properly as in the daytime,
not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in strife and jealousy.

13:14
But put on the Lord Jesus Christ,
and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires.
