4:1
What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather discovered according to the flesh?

4:2
For if Abraham was justified by works,
he has something to boast about --
but not before God.

4:3
For what does the Scripture say?
"Abraham believed God,
and it was credited to him as righteousness."

4:4
Now to the one who works, the wage is not credited as a gift but as an obligation.

4:5
But to the one who does not work, but believes in the one who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness,

4:6
just as David also speaks of the blessing of the person
to whom God credits righteousness apart from works:

4:7
"Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven,
and whose sins have been covered;

4:8
blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will never count against him."

4:9
Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for the uncircumcised? For we say,
"Faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness."

4:10
How then was it credited?
While he was circumcised or uncircumcised?
Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised.

4:11
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith he had while uncircumcised,
so that he would be the father of all who believe while uncircumcised,
so that righteousness would be credited to them,

4:12
and the father of the circumcised -- not only to those who are circumcised
but also to those who walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had while uncircumcised.

4:13
For the promise to Abraham or to his offspring
that he would be heir of the world was not through the law,
but through the righteousness of faith.

4:14
For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made void
and the promise is nullified.

4:15
For the law produces wrath,
but where there is no law,
there is no transgression.

4:16
For this reason it is by faith,
so that it may be according to grace, in order that the promise may be guaranteed
to all the offspring -- not only to those of the law but also to those of the faith of Abraham
(who is the father of us all,

4:17
as it is written, "I have made you the father of many nations"),
in the presence of the God in whom he believed,
the God who gives life to the dead
and calls into being things that do not exist.

4:18
Against all hope, in hope he believed,
so that he would become the father of many nations, according to what was spoken:
"So shall your offspring be."

4:19
And without growing weak in faith, he considered his own body
as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Sarah's womb.

4:20
Yet regarding the promise of God, he did not waver in unbelief
but was strengthened in faith,
giving glory to God,

4:21
being fully persuaded that what God had promised,
he was also able to do.

4:22
Therefore it was credited to him as righteousness.

4:23
Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was credited to him,

4:24
but also for our sake,
to whom it will be credited, to those who believe
in the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,

4:25
who was delivered over because of our transgressions
and was raised for our justification.
