14:1
Now it happened in Iconium that they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews
and spoke in such a way
that a great multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed.

14:2
But the Jews who refused to believe
stirred up and poisoned the minds of the Gentiles against the brothers.

14:3
So they stayed for a considerable time
speaking boldly for the Lord
who bore witness to the word of his grace,
granting signs and wonders to be done through their hands.

14:4
But the population of the city was divided,
and some sided with the Jews
and some with the apostles.

14:5
And when an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews with their rulers
to mistreat and stone them,

14:6
they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia,
Lystra and Derbe and the surrounding region,

14:7
and there they continued proclaiming the good news.

14:8
And a man unable to use his feet was sitting in Lystra,
lame from his mother's womb,
who had never walked.

14:9
This man listened to Paul speaking;
and Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be healed,

14:10
said with a loud voice:
Stand upright on your feet!
And he leaped up and began to walk.

14:11
And when the crowds saw what Paul had done
they raised their voices, saying in Lycaonian:
The gods have come down to us in human form!

14:12
And they began calling Barnabas Zeus,
and Paul Hermes,
because he was the chief speaker.

14:13
And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds.

14:14
But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they
tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd crying out

14:15
and saying:
Men,
why are you doing these things?
We also are men of the same nature as you,
bringing you good news to turn from these worthless things to the living God
who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them;

14:16
who in past generations allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways;

14:17
yet he did not leave himself without witness, doing good,
giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons,
filling your hearts with food and gladness.

14:18
And even saying these things
they barely restrained the crowds from offering sacrifice to them.

14:19
But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having
persuaded the crowds and having stoned Paul they dragged him outside the city, supposing him
to be dead.

14:20
But when the disciples gathered around him he rose up and entered the
city. And on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derbe.

14:21
And after they had preached the gospel to that city
and made many disciples they returned
to Lystra
and to Iconium
and to Antioch,

14:22
strengthening the souls of the disciples,
encouraging them to continue in the faith
and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.

14:23
And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed.

14:24
And passing through Pisidia they came to Pamphylia,

14:25
and when they had spoken the word in Perga they went down to Attalia,

14:26
and from there they sailed to Antioch,
where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work that they had fulfilled.

14:27
And when they arrived and gathered the church together they reported all that God had
done with them and that he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.

14:28
And they spent no little time with the disciples.
