13:1
Now there were in Antioch in the local church prophets and teachers:
both Barnabas and Simeon who was called Niger,
and Lucius of Cyrene,
and Manaen a close friend of Herod the tetrarch,
and Saul.

13:2
While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting
the Holy Spirit said:
Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul
for the work to which I have called them.

13:3
Then after fasting
and praying
and laying their hands on them
they sent them off.

13:4
So being sent out by the Holy Spirit they went down to Seleucia,
and from there they sailed to Cyprus,

13:5
and arriving in Salamis they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews;
and they also had John as a helper.

13:6
And passing through the whole island as far as Paphos they found a certain magician, a Jewish false prophet named Bar-Jesus,

13:7
who was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man.
He summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God;

13:8
but Elymas the magician opposed them,
for so his name is translated,
seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.

13:9
But Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit
looked intently at him ¹⁰and said:

13:10
O full of all deceit and all fraud,
son of the devil,
enemy of all righteousness,
will you not stop making crooked the straight ways of the Lord?

13:11
And now behold the hand of the Lord is upon you,
and you will be blind and not see the sun for a time.
And immediately mist and darkness fell upon him,
and going about he sought people to lead him by the hand.

13:12
Then the proconsul seeing what had happened believed,
being astonished at the teaching of the Lord.

13:13
And putting out to sea from Paphos Paul and his companions came to Perga in Pamphylia;
but John left them and returned to Jerusalem.

13:14
And they themselves passing through from Perga arrived at Pisidian Antioch,
and entering the synagogue on the Sabbath day they sat down.

13:15
And after the reading of the Law and the Prophets the synagogue leaders sent word to them saying:
Brothers,
if you have any word of encouragement for the people, say it.

13:16
And Paul stood up and motioning with his hand said:
Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen.

13:17
The God of this people Israel chose our fathers,
and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt,
and with an uplifted arm he led them out from it,

13:18
and for about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness,

13:19
and after destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan he gave them their land as an inheritance

13:20
for about four hundred and fifty years. And after that he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.

13:21
Then they asked for a king,
and God gave them Saul the son of Kish,
a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years;

13:22
and after removing him he raised up David as their king,
to whom he also testified saying:
I have found David the son of Jesse,
a man after my heart,
who will do all my will.

13:23
From this man's offspring God according to promise
brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus,

13:24
after John had proclaimed before his coming
a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.

13:25
And as John was completing his course he said:
What do you suppose that I am?
I am not he;
but behold after me one is coming
the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.

13:26
Brothers,
sons of the family of Abraham and those among you who fear God,
to us the message of this salvation has been sent.

13:27
For those living in Jerusalem and their rulers,
not recognizing him nor the utterances of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him,

13:28
and though they found no charge deserving death they asked Pilate to have him executed;

13:29
and when they had carried out all that was written about him,
they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb.

13:30
But God raised him from the dead;

13:31
and for many days he appeared
to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem,
who are now his witnesses to the people.

13:32
And we bring you the good news of the promise made to the fathers

13:33
that God has fulfilled this for our children by raising Jesus,
as it is also written in the second Psalm:
You are my Son,
today I have begotten you.

13:34
And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead,
no more to return to decay,
he has spoken in this way:
I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.

13:35
Therefore he also says in another Psalm:
You will not let your Holy One see decay.

13:36
For David after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation fell asleep
and was laid with his fathers
and saw decay,

13:37
but he whom God raised up
did not see decay.

13:38
Let it therefore be known to you, brothers,
that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you,
and from all things from which you could not be justified under the law of Moses

13:39
in this one everyone who believes is justified.

13:40
Beware therefore
lest what is said in the Prophets should come upon you:

13:41
Look, you
scoffers,
and wonder
and perish,
for I am doing a work in your days,
a work that you will not believe
even if someone tells it to you.

13:42
And as they were going out
they urged that these things be spoken to them the following Sabbath.

13:43
And when the synagogue meeting broke up many Jews and devout converts followed Paul and Barnabas,
who speaking to them urged them to continue in the grace of God.

13:44
And on the following Sabbath
almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.

13:45
But when the Jews saw the crowds they were filled with jealousy
and began contradicting what was spoken by Paul, blaspheming.

13:46
And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said:
It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you;
since you thrust it aside
and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life,
behold we are turning to the Gentiles.

13:47
For so the Lord has commanded us:
I have made you a light for the Gentiles,
that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.

13:48
And when the Gentiles heard this they rejoiced
and glorified the word of the Lord,
and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed;

13:49
and the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region.

13:50
But the Jews incited the devout women of prominence
and the leading men of the city
and stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas,
and drove them out of their district.

13:51
But they shook the dust off their feet against them
and went to Iconium,

13:52
and the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
