17:1
And passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia they came
to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.

17:2
And according to Paul's custom he went in to them,
and for three Sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,

17:3
explaining and demonstrating that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise
from the dead, and that this Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ.

17:4
And some of them were persuaded
and joined Paul and Silas,
as did a great number of the God-fearing Greeks
and not a few of the leading women.

17:5
But the Jews became jealous, and taking some wicked men from the marketplace and forming a mob they set the city in
an uproar, and attacking the house of Jason they sought to bring them out to the people;

17:6
and when they did not find them they dragged Jason and some brothers before the city
authorities, crying out: These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also,

17:7
and Jason has received them;
and they all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar,
saying that there is another king, Jesus.

17:8
And they stirred up the crowd and the city authorities when they heard these things,

17:9
and when they had taken a security bond from Jason and the rest, they released them.

17:10
And the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night
to Berea,
and when they arrived they went into the synagogue of the Jews;

17:11
and these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica,
for they received the word with all eagerness,
examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.

17:12
Therefore many of them believed,
along with not a few prominent Greek women and men.

17:13
But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned
that the word of God had been proclaimed by Paul in Berea also,
they came there too, agitating and stirring up the crowds.

17:14
And then immediately the brothers sent Paul off
to go to the sea,
but Silas and Timothy remained there.

17:15
And those who escorted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving
a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as quickly as possible, they departed.

17:16
Now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was
provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols.

17:17
So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearers,
and in the marketplace
every day
with those who happened to be there.

17:18
And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers conversed with him,
and some said:
What does this babbler wish to say?
And others said:
He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities—
because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.

17:19
And they took hold of him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying:
May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting?

17:20
For you are bringing some strange things to our ears;
therefore we want to know what these things mean.

17:21
Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time in nothing else
but telling something,
or hearing something new.

17:22
So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said:
Men of Athens,
I perceive that in every way you are very religious;

17:23
for as I passed along and observed the objects
of your worship I found also an altar
on which was inscribed: To an unknown god. What therefore
you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you.

17:24
The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands,

17:25
nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything,
since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything;

17:26
and he made from one man every nation of mankind
to dwell on all the face of the earth,
having determined allotted periods
and the boundaries of their dwelling places,

17:27
that they should seek God,
and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him,
though indeed he is not far from each one of us.

17:28
For in him we live
and move
and have our being;
as even some of your own poets have said:
For we are indeed his offspring.

17:29
Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to think
that gold or silver or stone, an image formed
by the art and imagination of man, is like the divine nature.

17:30
The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent,

17:31
because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness
by a man whom he has appointed,
and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead.

17:32
Now when they heard of the resurrection
of the dead, some mocked, but others said:
We will hear you again about this.

17:33
So Paul went out from their midst;

17:34
but some men joined him and believed,
among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite
and a woman named Damaris
and others with them.
