4:1
While they were speaking to the people the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,


4:2
being greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people
and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead,


4:3
and they laid hands on them
and put them in custody until the next day,
for it was already evening.


4:4
But many of those who heard the word believed,
and the number of the men came to about five thousand.


4:5
And it came about on the next day
that their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem


4:6
(and Annas the high priest
and Caiaphas
and John
and Alexander,
and all who were of high-priestly descent),


4:7
and having placed them in the center they inquired:
By what power or in what name did you do this?


4:8
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them:
Rulers of the people and elders,


4:9
if we are being examined today for a good deed done to a sick man,
by what means this man has been healed,


4:10
let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene,
whom you crucified,
whom God raised from the dead,
by this name this man stands before you healthy.


4:11
This is the stone that was rejected by you the builders,
which has become the cornerstone.


4:12
And there is salvation in no one else,
for there is no other name under heaven given among men
by which we must be saved.


4:13
Now observing the boldness of Peter and John and perceiving that they were uneducated and ordinary men, they were amazed,
and they recognized that they had been with Jesus,


4:14
and seeing the man who had been healed standing with them they had nothing to say in reply.


4:15
But having ordered them to go outside the council
they conferred with one another


4:16
saying:
What shall we do with these men?
For that a notable sign has been performed through them
is evident to all who live in Jerusalem,
and we cannot deny it;


4:17
but so that it may not spread further among the people,
let us warn them to speak no longer to anyone in this name.


4:18
And having called them they commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.


4:19
But Peter and John answered and said to them:
Whether it is right in the sight of God
to listen to you rather than to God,
you judge,


4:20
for we cannot stop speaking about what we have seen and heard.


4:21
And when they had threatened them further they released them,
finding no way to punish them, on account of the people,
because they were all glorifying God for what had happened;


4:22
for the man on whom this sign of healing had been performed
was more than forty years old.


4:23
And being released they went to their own people
and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.


4:24
And when they heard this they lifted their voices together to God and said:
Master,
you who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them,


4:25
who through the Holy Spirit by the mouth of our father David your servant said:
Why did the nations rage
and the peoples devise futile things?


4:26
The kings of the earth took their stand
and the rulers assembled together against the Lord and against his Christ.


4:27
For truly in this city there were gathered together
against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed,
both Herod and Pontius Pilate along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,


4:28
to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place.


4:29
And now, Lord,
look upon their threats
and grant your servants to speak your word with all boldness,


4:30
while you stretch out your hand for healing
and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus.


4:31
And when they had prayed the place where they had gathered together was shaken,
and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit,
and they spoke the word of God with boldness.


4:32
Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul,
and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own,
but they had everything in common.


4:33
And with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus,
and great grace was upon them all.


4:34
For there was not a needy person among them;
for all who were owners of lands or houses would sell them
and bring the proceeds of what was sold


4:35
and lay them at the apostles' feet;
and it was distributed to each as any had need.


4:36
And Joseph who was surnamed Barnabas by the apostles,
which translated means Son of Encouragement,
a Levite, a native of Cyprus,


4:37
who owned a field, sold it and brought the money,
and laid it at the apostles' feet.
