27:1
And when it was decided that we should sail to Italy,
they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion
named Julius, of the Augustan Cohort.

27:2
And embarking on a ship of Adramyttium
that was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia,
we put to sea,
Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica, being with us;

27:3
and the next day we put in at Sidon,
and Julius treated Paul kindly
and allowed him to go to his friends and receive care.

27:4
And putting out from there we sailed under the lee of Cyprus because the winds were against us,

27:5
and having sailed across the open sea along Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came down
to Myra in Lycia.

27:6
And there the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing for Italy and put us aboard it.

27:7
And sailing slowly for a number of days and arriving with difficulty off Cnidus, since the
wind did not allow us to go farther, we sailed under the lee of Crete off Salmone,

27:8
and coasting along it with difficulty we came to a certain place
called Fair Havens,
near which was the city of Lasea.

27:9
And since considerable time had passed
and the voyage was now dangerous because even the Fast had already gone by,
Paul advised them,

27:10
saying to them:
Men,
I perceive that with damage and much loss,
not only of the cargo and the ship
but also of our lives,
the voyage is about to be.

27:11
But the centurion was more persuaded by the pilot and the ship's owner
than by what Paul said.

27:12
And since the harbor was unsuitable for wintering, the majority decided to
put out to sea from there, if somehow they could reach
Phoenix and winter there, a harbor of Crete facing southwest and northwest.

27:13
And when the south wind blew gently,
thinking they had obtained their purpose,
they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close to shore.

27:14
But before long a violent wind called the northeaster rushed down from the island;

27:15
and when the ship was caught
and could not face the wind,
we gave way to it and were driven along.

27:16
And running under the lee of a small island called Cauda, we managed with difficulty to secure the ship's boat,

27:17
and after hoisting it up they
used supports to undergird the ship;
and fearing that they would run aground
on the Syrtis, they lowered the
gear, and so were driven along.

27:18
And since we were being violently storm-tossed, the next day they began to throw the cargo overboard,

27:19
and on the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands.

27:20
And when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small storm
was pressing upon us, all hope of our being saved was at last abandoned.

27:21
And since they had been without food for a long
time, then Paul stood up among them and said: Men,
you should have listened to me and not set
sail from Crete and so avoided this damage and loss.

27:22
And now I urge you to take heart,
for there will be no loss of life among you, only of the ship;

27:23
for there stood before me this night an angel of the God
whose I am,
whom I also serve,

27:24
saying:
Do not be afraid, Paul;
you must stand before Caesar,
and behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you.

27:25
Therefore take heart, men;
for I believe God that it will be exactly
as it has been told to me.

27:26
But we must run aground on some island.

27:27
And when the fourteenth night had come,
as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea,
about midnight the sailors suspected that they were nearing some land.

27:28
And taking soundings they found twenty fathoms;
and a short distance farther on, taking soundings again, they found fifteen fathoms;

27:29
and fearing that we might run aground on the rocks,
they dropped four anchors from the stern
and prayed for day to come.

27:30
And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship,
having lowered the boat into the sea on the pretense of laying out anchors from the bow,
intending to flee,

27:31
Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers:
Unless these men stay in the ship,
you cannot be saved.

27:32
Then the soldiers cut the ropes of the boat
and let it drift away.

27:33
And as day was about to dawn,
Paul urged them all to take food, saying:
Today is the fourteenth day you have been waiting
and going without food,
having eaten nothing;

27:34
therefore I urge you to take some food,
for this is for your preservation;
for not a hair from the head of any of you will perish.

27:35
And having said these things and taking bread, he gave thanks to
God before them all, and breaking it he began to eat.

27:36
And they all were encouraged and took food themselves.

27:37
And we were in all two hundred seventy-six persons on the ship.

27:38
And when they had eaten their fill, they lightened
the ship by throwing the wheat into the sea.

27:39
And when day came,
they did not recognize the land,
but they noticed a certain bay
with a beach,
onto which they planned to run the ship ashore if they could.

27:40
And casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea,
at the same time loosening the ropes of the rudders, and
hoisting the foresail to the wind, they made for the beach.

27:41
But striking a place where two seas met, they ran the vessel aground,
and the bow stuck fast and remained immovable,
but the stern was being broken apart by the force of the waves.

27:42
And the soldiers formed a plan
to kill the prisoners,
lest anyone should swim away and escape;

27:43
but the centurion, wanting to save Paul,
kept them from their plan,
and he ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and make for land,

27:44
and the rest—
some on planks,
some on pieces from the ship;
and so it happened
that all were brought safely
to land.
