21:1
And when it came about that we set sail after parting from them,
we made a straight run and came to Cos,
and the next day to Rhodes,
and from there to Patara;

21:2
and finding a ship crossing over to Phoenicia we went aboard and set sail.

21:3
And having come in sight of Cyprus and leaving it
on our left we sailed to Syria, and put in at
Tyre, for there the ship was to unload its cargo.

21:4
And having found the disciples we stayed there seven days,
and they kept telling Paul through the Spirit
not to set foot in Jerusalem.

21:5
And when our days there were ended,
we departed and went on our way
while they all, with wives and children, escorted us until we were outside the city,
and kneeling down on the beach
we prayed

21:6
and said farewell to one another,
and we went aboard the ship,
and they returned to their own homes.

21:7
And when we completed the voyage from Tyre we arrived at Ptolemais,
and having greeted the brothers we stayed with them for one day.

21:8
And on the next day we departed and came to Caesarea,
and entering the house of Philip the evangelist who was one of the seven,
we stayed with him.

21:9
And he had four unmarried daughters who prophesied.

21:10
And while we were staying for many days a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea,

21:11
and coming to us and taking Paul's belt he
bound his own feet and hands and said: Thus says
the Holy Spirit: The man who owns this belt—
the Jews in Jerusalem will bind him in this way
and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.

21:12
And when we heard these things,
we and the local people urged him
not to go up to Jerusalem.

21:13
Then Paul answered:
What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart?
For I am ready not only to be bound
but even to die in Jerusalem
for the name of the Lord Jesus.

21:14
And since he would not be persuaded, we fell silent and said:
The will of the Lord be done.

21:15
And after these days, having made preparations, we went up to Jerusalem;

21:16
and some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us,
bringing us to Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we were to stay.

21:17
And when we arrived in Jerusalem the brothers received us gladly.

21:18
And on the following day Paul went in with us to James,
and all the elders were present.

21:19
And having greeted them he reported one by one
the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.

21:20
And when they heard it they glorified God,
and they said to him:
You see,
brother,
how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed,
and they are all zealous for the law;

21:21
and they have been told about you
that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses,
telling them not to circumcise their children
nor to walk according to the customs.

21:22
What then is to be done?
They will certainly hear that you have come.

21:23
Therefore do what we tell you:
we have four men who are under a vow;

21:24
take these men and purify yourself along with them
and pay their expenses,
so that they may shave their heads,
and everyone will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you,
but that you yourself also walk in observance of the law.

21:25
But concerning the Gentiles who have believed, we sent a letter
having decided that they should keep themselves
from food sacrificed to idols and from blood and from what is strangled and from sexual immorality.

21:26
Then Paul took the men, and the next day having purified himself
along with them he entered the temple, announcing the completion of the days
of purification until the offering was presented for each one of them.

21:27
And when the seven days were about to be completed,
the Jews from Asia who had seen him in the temple
stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him,

21:28
crying out:
Men of Israel,
help!
This is the man who teaches everyone everywhere against the people and the law
and this place,
and moreover he has brought Greeks into the temple
and has defiled this holy place.

21:29
For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him,
whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.

21:30
And the whole city was stirred up
and the people rushed together,
and they seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple,
and immediately the doors were shut.

21:31
And while they were seeking to kill him
a report came up to the tribune of the cohort
that all Jerusalem was in confusion,

21:32
and he immediately took soldiers and centurions and
ran down to them, and when they saw the
tribune and the soldiers they stopped beating Paul.

21:33
Then the tribune came up and arrested him
and ordered him to be bound with two chains,
and he inquired who he was and what he had done.

21:34
And some in the crowd were shouting one thing and some another;
and since he could not learn the facts because of the uproar
he ordered him to be brought into the barracks.

21:35
And when he came to the steps,
it happened that he was carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd,

21:36
for the mass of the people followed, crying out:
Away with him!

21:37
And as Paul was about to be brought into the barracks he said to the tribune:
May I say something to you?
And he said:
Do you know Greek?

21:38
Then you are not the Egyptian who before these days stirred up a revolt
and led the four thousand men of the Assassins out into the wilderness?

21:39
And Paul said:
I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia,
a citizen of no obscure city;
and I beg you, permit me to speak to the people.

21:40
And when he had given him permission Paul, standing on the
steps, motioned with his hand to the people, and when there was
a great silence he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying:
