18:1
After these things he departed from Athens and came to Corinth.

18:2
And finding a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus,
who had recently come from Italy with Priscilla his wife
because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome,
he went to them,

18:3
and because he was of the same trade he stayed with them and worked,
for they were tentmakers by trade.

18:4
And he was reasoning in the synagogue every Sabbath,
and persuading Jews and Greeks.

18:5
And when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia,
Paul was occupied with the word,
testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus.

18:6
And when they opposed him and reviled him, he
shook out his garments and said to them:
Your blood be on your own heads; I am clean;
from now on I will go to the Gentiles.

18:7
And departing from there he entered the house of a man named Titius Justus,
a worshiper of God,
whose house was next door to the synagogue.

18:8
And Crispus the ruler of the synagogue believed in the Lord together with his entire household,
and many of the Corinthians who heard were believing and being baptized.

18:9
And the Lord said to Paul by night in a vision:
Do not be afraid,
but speak and do not be silent,

18:10
because I am with you
and no one will attack you to harm you,
because I have many people in this city.

18:11
And he settled there a year and six months
teaching the word of God among them.

18:12
But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia the Jews with one accord
rose up against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat,

18:13
saying: This man is persuading people to worship God contrary to the law.

18:14
But when Paul was about to open his mouth
Gallio said to the Jews:
If it were a matter of some wrongdoing or wicked crime,
O Jews,
I would have reason to bear with you;

18:15
but if it is questions about words and names and your own law,
see to it yourselves;
I do not wish to be a judge of these things.

18:16
And he drove them away from the judgment seat.

18:17
And they all seized Sosthenes the ruler of the synagogue and beat him before
the judgment seat; but none of these things were of concern to Gallio.

18:18
And Paul, having remained yet many days, took leave of
the brothers and sailed for Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila,
having shaved his head at Cenchreae, for he had taken a vow.

18:19
And they arrived at Ephesus,
and he left them there,
but he himself entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.

18:20
And when they asked him to stay for a longer time
he did not consent,

18:21
but taking leave of them
and saying: I will return to you again if God wills,
he set sail from Ephesus,

18:22
and having landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, then went down to Antioch,

18:23
and having spent some time there
he departed, going through the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order,
strengthening all the disciples.

18:24
Now a certain Jew named Apollos,
an Alexandrian by birth,
an eloquent man, arrived at Ephesus,
being powerful in the Scriptures.

18:25
This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord,
and being fervent in spirit he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus,
knowing only the baptism of John.

18:26
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue; but
when Priscilla and Aquila heard him they took him aside
and explained to him the way of God more accurately.

18:27
And when he wanted to cross over to Achaia
the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him;
and when he arrived he greatly helped those who had believed through grace;

18:28
for he vigorously refuted the Jews in public
showing through the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.
