25:1
Festus then, having arrived in the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea,

25:2
and the chief priests and the leading men of the Jews brought charges before him against Paul,
and they urged him

25:3
asking a favor against him that he would send for him
to Jerusalem, planning an ambush to kill him along the way.

25:4
Festus then answered that Paul was being kept in custody
at Caesarea, and that he himself was about to leave shortly;

25:5
Therefore let those who have authority among you, he said, come down with me, and if there is anything wrong with the man
let them bring charges against him.

25:6
And after spending no more than eight or ten days among them, he went down to Caesarea, and
the next day he took his seat on the judgment seat and ordered Paul to be brought.

25:7
And when he arrived the Jews who had come
down from Jerusalem stood around him bringing many serious charges
against him which they were not able to prove,

25:8
while Paul argued in his defense:
Neither against the law of the Jews
nor against the temple
nor against Caesar
have I committed any offense.

25:9
But Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor,
answered Paul and said:
Do you wish to go up to Jerusalem and be judged there before me concerning these things?

25:10
And Paul said:
I am standing before Caesar's judgment seat,
where I ought to be tried.
I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you also know very well.

25:11
If then I am a wrongdoer
and have committed anything worthy of death,
I do not refuse to die;
but if there is nothing
in their accusations against me,
no one can hand me over to them;
I appeal to Caesar.

25:12
Then Festus, having conferred with his council, answered:
To Caesar you have appealed;
to Caesar you shall go.

25:13
And after some days had passed King Agrippa and Bernice
arrived at Caesarea to pay their respects to Festus.

25:14
And as they were spending many days there,
Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying:
There is a certain man left behind by Felix as a prisoner,

25:15
about whom, when I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the
elders of the Jews brought charges, asking for a verdict against him;

25:16
to whom I answered
that it is not the custom of the Romans
to hand over any person
before the accused meets his accusers face to face
and has opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge.

25:17
So when they came together here, making no delay, the next day I took my seat on the judgment seat and ordered the man to be brought;

25:18
and when his accusers stood up they brought no charge of the sort
that I was expecting of evil,

25:19
but they had certain questions about their own religion against him
and about a certain Jesus who had died,
whom Paul asserted to be alive.

25:20
And being at a loss how to investigate these matters I asked whether he wished to go to Jerusalem and be tried there concerning them.

25:21
But when Paul appealed to be held in custody for the decision of the Emperor,
I ordered him to be kept
until I could send him to Caesar.

25:22
And Agrippa said to Festus:
I would like to hear the man myself.
Tomorrow, he said, you will hear him.

25:23
So on the next day when Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp
and entered the audience hall with the tribunes
and the prominent men of the city
and at the command of Festus, Paul was brought in.

25:24
And Festus said:
King Agrippa and all who are present with us, you see this man
about whom the whole multitude of the Jews petitioned me both in Jerusalem and here,
shouting that he ought not to live any longer.

25:25
But I found that he had done nothing deserving of death,
and since he himself appealed to the Emperor
I decided to send him.

25:26
But I have nothing definite to write to my lord
about him;
therefore I have brought him before you all and especially before you, King Agrippa,
so that after this examination has taken place I may have something to write;

25:27
for it seems unreasonable to me to send a prisoner
without also indicating the charges against him.
