24:1
And after five days the high priest Ananias came down
with some elders and an attorney named Tertullus,
and they brought their case before the governor against Paul.

24:2
And when he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying:
Since through you we enjoy much peace,
and since reforms are being made for this nation through your foresight,

24:3
we accept this in every way and everywhere,
most excellent Felix,
with all gratitude.

24:4
But so that I may not detain you further,
I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly.

24:5
For we have found this man to be a plague,
one who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world,
and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes,

24:6
who even tried to profane the temple,
and we seized him.

24:8
From him you yourself will be able, by examining him, to learn about all these things
of which we accuse him.

24:9
And the Jews also joined in the attack,
affirming that these things were so.

24:10
And when the governor nodded to him to speak, Paul replied: Knowing
that for many years you have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully make my defense about my own affairs,

24:11
since you can verify
that it is not more than twelve days
since I went up to worship in Jerusalem,

24:12
and they did not find me disputing with anyone in the temple
or stirring up a crowd,
neither in the synagogues
nor throughout the city,

24:13
nor can they prove to you the charges they now bring against me.

24:14
But this I confess to you,
that according to the Way, which they call a sect,
I worship the God of our fathers,
believing everything laid down according to the Law and written in the Prophets,

24:15
having a hope in God,
which these men themselves accept,
that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust;

24:16
so I also strive
to have a conscience without offense toward God and men at all times.

24:17
Now after several years
I came to bring alms to my nation
and offerings,

24:18
while I was doing this they found me purified in the temple,
without any crowd
or any tumult,

24:19
but some Jews from Asia--
who ought to be here before you and to make accusation
if they have anything against me,

24:20
or else let these men themselves say
what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the council,

24:21
other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them:
It is with respect to the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day.

24:22
But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put them off,
saying:
When Lysias the commander comes down
I will decide your case;

24:23
and he gave orders to the centurion that he should be kept in custody
but have some liberty,
and that none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs.

24:24
And after some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and
he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.

24:25
And as he reasoned about righteousness and self-control and
the coming judgment, Felix became alarmed and answered: Go away for
the present; when I get an opportunity I will summon you.

24:26
At the same time he was hoping that money would be given him by Paul; so he sent for him often and conversed with him.

24:27
When two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded
by Porcius Festus; and desiring to do
the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in prison.
