15:1
And some who came down from Judea were teaching the brothers:
Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses,
you cannot be saved.

15:2
And when no small dispute and debate arose between Paul and Barnabas and them,
they appointed Paul and Barnabas and some others of them to go up to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem about this question.

15:3
So being sent on their way by the church,
they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria,
describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles,
and they brought great joy to all the brothers.

15:4
And when they arrived in Jerusalem they were received by the church
and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all that God had done with them.

15:5
But some of those from the sect of the Pharisees who had believed rose up,
saying that it is necessary to circumcise them
and to command them to keep the law of Moses.

15:6
And the apostles and the elders gathered together to consider this matter.

15:7
And after much debate Peter stood up and said
to them: Brothers, you know that in the early days God
made a choice among you that through my mouth
the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe,

15:8
and God who knows the heart bore witness to them
by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he also did to us,

15:9
and he made no distinction between us and them,
having cleansed their hearts by faith.

15:10
Now therefore why are you putting God to the test
by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples
that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?

15:11
But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus we are saved
in the same way as they also are.

15:12
And all the assembly fell silent,
and they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they related
what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.

15:13
And after they finished speaking, James replied saying:
Brothers,
listen to me.

15:14
Simeon has related
how God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name.

15:15
And with this the words of the prophets agree,
just as it is written:

15:16
After this I will return
and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen,
and its ruins I will rebuild
and I will restore it,

15:17
so that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord,
and all the Gentiles upon whom my name has been called,
says the Lord who does these things

15:18
known from of old.

15:19
Therefore my judgment is
not to trouble those of the Gentiles who are turning to God,

15:20
but to write to them to abstain from the pollutions of idols and from sexual immorality and from what has been strangled and from blood;

15:21
For Moses from ancient generations has had in every city those who proclaim him,
being read aloud in the synagogues every Sabbath.

15:22
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church,
to choose men from among them to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas—
Judas called Barsabbas and Silas,
leading men among the brothers—

15:23
writing by their hand:
The apostles and the elders, your brothers,
to the brothers from among the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greetings.

15:24
Since we have heard that some from among us have troubled you with words
unsettling your souls,
to whom we gave no instructions,

15:25
it seemed good to us, having come to one accord,
to choose men to send to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,

15:26
men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:27
We have therefore sent Judas and Silas,
who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth.

15:28
For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us
to lay on you no greater burden than these necessary things:

15:29
to abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality;
if you keep yourselves from these you will do well.
Farewell.

15:30
So when they were sent off they went down to Antioch,
and having gathered the congregation together they delivered the letter;

15:31
and when they read it they rejoiced because of its encouragement.

15:32
And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with many words;

15:33
and after they had spent some time they were sent off in peace by the brothers
to those who had sent them.

15:35
But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch
teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.

15:36
And after some days Paul said to Barnabas:
Let us return and visit the brothers in every city
in which we proclaimed the word of the Lord
and see how they are.

15:37
And Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark;

15:38
but Paul thought it best
not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia
and had not gone with them to the work—
not to take this one along.

15:39
And there arose a sharp disagreement,
so that they separated from each other,
and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus,

15:40
but Paul chose Silas and departed,
having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord,

15:41
and he went through Syria and Cilicia
strengthening the churches.
