12:1
Now about that time Herod the king laid hands
on some who belonged to the church to harm them.

12:2
And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.

12:3
And seeing that it pleased the Jews he proceeded to arrest Peter also
(these were the days of Unleavened Bread),

12:4
and having seized him he put him in prison, handing him over to four squads
of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.

12:5
So Peter was being kept in prison,
but earnest prayer was being made
by the church
to God
for him.

12:6
Now when Herod was about to bring him out
on that night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers
bound with two chains, and guards before the door were keeping watch over the prison.

12:7
And behold an angel
of the Lord appeared, and a light shone
in the cell, and striking Peter on the side he woke
him
saying: Get up quickly!
And the chains fell off his hands.

12:8
And the angel said to him: Dress yourself and put on your sandals.
And he did
so.
And he said to him:
Wrap your cloak around you
and follow me.

12:9
And going out he followed,
and he did not know that what was happening through the angel was real,
but thought he was seeing a vision.

12:10
And passing through the first guard and the second they came to the iron gate
leading into the city,
which opened to them by itself,
and going out they went along one street,
and immediately the angel departed from him.

12:11
And Peter coming to himself said:
Now I know for certain that the Lord sent his angel and rescued me
from the hand of Herod and from all the expectation of the Jewish people.

12:12
And realizing this he went to the house of Mary the mother of John who was called Mark,
where many were gathered together and praying.

12:13
And when he knocked at the door of the gate a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer,

12:14
and recognizing Peter's voice from joy she did not open the gate,
but running in she reported that Peter was standing before the gate.

12:15
And they said to her:
You are out of your mind.
But she kept insisting that it was so.
And they said:
It is his angel.

12:16
But Peter kept on knocking,
and opening the door they saw him and were astounded.

12:17
And motioning to them with his hand to be silent
he described to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison,
and he said:
Report these things to James and to the brothers.
And going out he went to another place.

12:18
Now when day came there was no small commotion
among the soldiers over what had become of Peter.

12:19
And when Herod had searched for him and not finding him he examined the guards and
ordered them to be led away, and going down from Judea to Caesarea he stayed there.

12:20
Now he was furious with the people
of Tyre
and Sidon, but they came
to him with one accord, and having persuaded Blastus the king's chamberlain they asked for peace because their country depended on the king's territory for food.

12:21
And on an appointed day Herod put on his royal
robes and sitting on the judgment seat addressed them publicly.

12:22
And the people were shouting:
The voice of a god and not of a man!

12:23
And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him because
he did not give the glory to God,
and being eaten by worms he breathed his last.

12:24
But the word of God continued to grow and multiply.

12:25
And Barnabas and Saul returned,
having fulfilled their mission to Jerusalem,
taking along with them John
who was called Mark.
