16:1
And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra.
And behold, a certain disciple was there,
named Timothy,
the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer,
but his father was a Greek,

16:2
who was well spoken of by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium;

16:3
Paul wanted this man to go out with him,
and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews
who were in those places,
for they all knew that his father was a Greek.

16:4
And as they were passing through the cities,
they delivered to them for observance the decisions that had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.

16:5
So the churches were being strengthened in the faith
and were increasing in number day by day.

16:6
And they passed through the region of Phrygia and Galatia,
having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia,

16:7
and when they came near Mysia they attempted to go into Bithynia
but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them;

16:8
so passing by Mysia they went down to Troas.

16:9
And a vision appeared to Paul during the night,
a certain Macedonian man was standing
and urging him
and saying:
Come over to Macedonia and help us.

16:10
And when he saw the vision,
immediately we sought to go out to Macedonia,
concluding that God had called us to proclaim the good news to them.

16:11
So setting sail from Troas we made a direct voyage to Samothrace,
and the following day to Neapolis,

16:12
and from there to Philippi, which is a leading city of that district of Macedonia, a Roman colony.
And we stayed in this city for some days.

16:13
And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate beside the river
where we supposed there was a place of prayer,
and we sat down and spoke to the women who had gathered.

16:14
And a certain woman named Lydia,
a dealer in purple cloth from the city of Thyatira
who worshiped God,
was listening,
and the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was being said by Paul.

16:15
And when she was baptized
and her household, she urged us saying:
If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay;
and she prevailed upon us.

16:16
And it happened as we were going to the place of prayer
that a slave girl having a spirit of divination met us,
who was bringing her masters much profit by fortune-telling;

16:17
she followed Paul and us and kept crying out,
saying: These men are servants of the Most High God,
who are proclaiming to you the way of salvation.

16:18
And she kept doing this for many days.
But Paul, greatly annoyed and turning to the spirit, said:
I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her;
and it came out that very hour.

16:19
But when her masters saw that their hope of profit was gone they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the authorities,

16:20
and bringing them before the magistrates they said:
These men are throwing our city into confusion
being Jews,

16:21
and they advocate customs
which are not lawful for us to accept or practice
being Romans.

16:22
And the crowd joined in the attack against them,
and the magistrates tore their garments off them and ordered them to be beaten with rods,

16:23
and having inflicted many blows on them they threw them into prison,
charging the jailer to guard them securely;

16:24
who, having received such a charge, threw them into the inner prison
and fastened their feet in the stocks.

16:25
And about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God,
and the prisoners were listening to them;

16:26
and suddenly there was a great earthquake,
so that the foundations of the prison were shaken,
and immediately all the doors were opened,
and everyone's chains were unfastened.

16:27
And the jailer, awakened and seeing the doors of the prison standing open, drew his sword and was about to kill himself,
supposing that the prisoners had escaped.

16:28
But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying:
Do no harm to yourself,
for we are all here.

16:29
And calling for lights he rushed in,
and trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and Silas,

16:30
and having brought them outside he said:
Sirs,
what must I do to be saved?

16:31
And they said:
Believe in the Lord Jesus,
and you will be saved, you and your household.

16:32
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him together with all who were in his house.

16:33
And taking them in that hour of the night he washed their wounds,
and he was baptized at once, he and all his household,

16:34
and bringing them up into his house he set food before them,
and he rejoiced with all his household
having believed in God.

16:35
And when day came
the magistrates sent the officers saying:
Release those men.

16:36
And the jailer reported these words to Paul,
that The magistrates have sent word
that you should be released;
so now come out and go in peace.

16:37
But Paul said to them:
They beat us publicly without a trial, men who are Roman citizens, and threw us into prison;
and now they are casting us out secretly? No indeed,
but let them come themselves and lead us out.

16:38
And the officers reported these words to the magistrates;
and they were afraid
when they heard that they were Romans,

16:39
and they came and apologized to them,
and having brought them out they asked them to leave the city.

16:40
And going out from the prison they went to Lydia's house,
and when they saw the brothers they encouraged them
and departed.
