20:1
And after the uproar had ceased, Paul sent for the disciples and
having encouraged them, he said farewell and departed to go to Macedonia.


20:2
And when he had passed through those regions and had encouraged them with many words, he came to Greece,


20:3
where he spent three months;
and when a plot was formed against him by the Jews
as he was about to set sail for Syria,
he decided to return through Macedonia.


20:4
And Gaius of Derbe and Timothy, and the Asians Tychicus and Trophimus;
and accompanying him was Sopater son of Pyrrhus from Berea,
and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus,


20:5
and these went ahead and were waiting for us at Troas;


20:6
and we sailed from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread,
and came to them at Troas
within five days,
where we stayed seven days.


20:7
And on the first day of the week, when we gathered to break bread,
Paul was conversing with them,
intending to depart the next day,
and he prolonged his message
until midnight.


20:8
And there were many lamps in the upper room
where we were assembled;


20:9
and a young man named Eutychus, sitting on the window, was sinking into
a deep sleep as Paul talked on and on, and overcome by
sleep he fell from the third story down and was picked up dead.


20:10
But Paul went down and fell
upon him and embracing him
said: Do not be alarmed,
for his life is in him.


20:11
And going up again and breaking the bread and eating, he talked with them a long while until dawn, and so departed.


20:12
And they brought the boy alive, and were greatly comforted.


20:13
And we went ahead to the ship and set sail for Assos,
intending to take Paul aboard there,
for so he had arranged,
intending himself to go on foot.


20:14
And when he met us at Assos, having taken
him aboard, we came to Mitylene,


20:15
and sailing from there, on the following day we arrived opposite Chios,
and on the next day we crossed over to Samos,
and on the day after that we came to Miletus;


20:16
for Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus,
so that he would not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying,
if it were possible for him,
to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.


20:17
And from Miletus he sent word to Ephesus and called to him the elders of the church.


20:18
And when they came to him
he said to them:
You yourselves know, from the first day
that I set foot in Asia,
how I was with you the whole time,


20:19
serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials
that came upon me through the plots of the Jews;


20:20
how I did not shrink from declaring anything profitable,
from proclaiming it to you
and teaching you publicly and from house to house,


20:21
testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God
and of faith in our Lord Jesus.


20:22
And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, bound in the Spirit,
not knowing what will happen to me there,


20:23
except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city,
saying that imprisonment and afflictions await me;


20:24
but I do not consider my life of any account as precious to myself,
so that I may finish my course and the ministry
which I received from the Lord Jesus,
to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.


20:25
And now, behold, I know that none of you will see my face again—
among whom I went about
proclaiming the kingdom.


20:26
Therefore I testify to you this day
that I am innocent of the blood of all,


20:27
for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.


20:28
Take heed to yourselves and to all the flock,
among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers,
to shepherd the church of God,
which he obtained through his own blood.


20:29
I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you,
not sparing the flock,


20:30
and from among your own selves men will arise,
speaking twisted things,
to draw away the disciples after themselves;


20:31
therefore be watchful, remembering
that for three years, night and day, I did not cease admonishing each one with tears.


20:32
And now I commend you to God
and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up
and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.


20:33
I coveted no one's silver or gold or clothing;


20:34
you yourselves know that these hands
ministered to my needs and to those who were with me.


20:35
In all things I showed you
that by working hard in this way you must help the weak, and remember
the words of the Lord Jesus,
that he himself said: It is more blessed to give than to receive.


20:36
And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.


20:37
And there was much weeping
by all, and falling on Paul's neck they kissed him,


20:38
grieving especially over the word he had spoken,
that they would see his face no more.
And they accompanied him
to the ship.
