19:1
And it happened while Apollos was in Corinth
that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus
and found some disciples,

19:2
and he said to them:
Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?
And they said to him:
No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.

19:3
And he said:
Into what then were you baptized?
And they said: Into John's baptism.

19:4
And Paul said:
John baptized with a baptism of repentance,
telling the people to believe in the one coming after him,
that is, in Jesus.

19:5
And when they heard this they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus;

19:6
and when Paul laid his hands on them the Holy Spirit came upon them,
and they began speaking in tongues
and prophesying.

19:7
And there were about twelve men in all.

19:8
And entering the synagogue he spoke boldly for three months
reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God.

19:9
But when some became hardened and disobedient
speaking evil of the Way before the assembly,
he withdrew from them and took the disciples with him,
reasoning daily in the lecture hall of Tyrannus.

19:10
And this continued for two years,
so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord,
both Jews and Greeks.

19:11
And God was performing extraordinary miracles through the hands of Paul,

19:12
so that they even carried away from his body to the sick
handkerchiefs or aprons,
and their diseases left them,
and the evil spirits went out of them.

19:13
And some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists also attempted
to name over those who had evil spirits
the name of the Lord Jesus, saying:
I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.

19:14
And there were seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva doing this.

19:15
But the evil spirit answered and said to them:
Jesus I know
and Paul I recognize,
but who are you?

19:16
And the man in whom the evil spirit lived leaped on them
and overpowered them both and prevailed against them,
so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.

19:17
And this became known to all the Jews and Greeks
who lived in Ephesus,
and fear fell upon them all,
and the name of the Lord Jesus was being magnified.

19:18
And many of those who had believed kept coming
confessing and disclosing their practices.

19:19
And a considerable number of those who practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them before everyone;
and they calculated their value
and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.

19:20
So the word of the Lord was growing mightily and prevailing.

19:21
Now after these things were completed,
Paul resolved in the Spirit
to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go to Jerusalem,
saying: After I have been there, I must also see Rome.

19:22
And having sent to Macedonia two of those who served him,
Timothy and Erastus,
he himself stayed on for a time in Asia.

19:23
And about that time there arose no small disturbance concerning the Way.

19:24
For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith,
making silver shrines of Artemis was providing no small profit for the craftsmen,

19:25
whom he gathered together with the workers in similar trades and said:
Men,
you know that from this business comes our prosperity,

19:26
and you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but throughout almost all of Asia,
this Paul has persuaded and turned away a considerable crowd,
saying
that gods made by hands are not gods.

19:27
And not only is there danger that this trade of ours will come into disrepute,
but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be regarded as nothing,
and that she will even be stripped of her magnificence
whom all Asia and the whole world worship.

19:28
And when they heard this and became full of rage
they began crying out, saying: Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!

19:29
And the city was filled with confusion,
and they rushed with one accord into the theater
having seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, Paul's traveling companions.

19:30
And when Paul wanted to enter the assembly
the disciples would not let him;

19:31
and also some of the Asiarchs who were his friends sent to him urging
that he not venture himself into the theater.

19:32
So some were shouting one thing and some another,
for the assembly was in confusion,
and most of them did not know why they had come together.

19:33
And some from the crowd instructed Alexander,
whom the Jews pushed to the front,
and Alexander, motioning with his hand, wanted to make a defense before the assembly.

19:34
But when they recognized that he was a Jew a single shout arose from all of them for about two hours, crying:
Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!

19:35
And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd he said:
Men of Ephesus,
for who among men is there
who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the temple keeper of the great Artemis and of the sacred stone that fell from heaven?

19:36
Since these things are undeniable
you ought to be calm
and do nothing rash.

19:37
For you have brought these men here
who are neither temple robbers
nor blasphemers of our goddess.

19:38
If therefore Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against anyone,
the courts are in session and there are proconsuls;
let them bring charges against one another.

19:39
But if you seek anything further,
it shall be settled in a lawful assembly.

19:40
For indeed we are in danger of being charged with rioting concerning today's events,
there being no cause,
about which we will not be able to give an account for this disorderly gathering.
And when he had said these things he dismissed the assembly.
