23:1
And Paul, looking intently at the council, said:
Brothers,
I have lived my life before God in all good conscience up to this day.

23:2
And the high priest Ananias commanded those standing beside him to strike him on the mouth.

23:3
Then Paul said to him:
God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall!
And you sit judging me according to the law,
and yet in violation of the law you order me to be struck?

23:4
And those standing nearby said:
Do you revile God's high priest?

23:5
And Paul said:
I did not know,
brothers,
that he was the high priest;
for it is written:
You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people.

23:6
Now when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council:
Brothers,
I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees;
it is with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial.

23:7
And when he said this a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees,
and the assembly was divided.

23:8
For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit,
but the Pharisees acknowledge them all.

23:9
And a great clamor arose,
and some of the scribes of the Pharisees' party stood up and contended sharply, saying:
We find nothing wrong in this man;
and what if a spirit or an angel spoke to him—

23:10
and when the dissension became violent, the commander, afraid that Paul would be torn apart by them,
ordered the soldiers to go down and take him away from among them by force,
and bring him into the barracks.

23:11
And the following night the Lord stood by him and said:
Take courage,
for as you have testified to the things concerning me in Jerusalem,
so you must testify also in Rome.

23:12
And when it was day, the Jews made a plot and bound themselves by an oath
saying they would neither eat
nor drink
until they had killed Paul.

23:13
And there were more than forty who made this conspiracy;

23:14
and they went to the chief priests and elders and said:
We have strictly bound ourselves by an oath to taste nothing
until we have killed Paul.

23:15
Now therefore you, together with the council, notify the commander
to bring him down to you,
as though you were going to determine his case more exactly;
and before he arrives we are ready to kill him.

23:16
But the son of Paul's sister heard about the ambush, and he went and entered the barracks and reported it to Paul.

23:17
And Paul called one of the centurions and said:
Take this young man to the commander,
for he has something to report to him.

23:18
So he took him and brought him to the commander and said:
The prisoner Paul called me and asked me to bring this young man to you,
having something to say to you.

23:19
And the commander took him by the hand and withdrawing privately asked:
What is it that you have to report to me?

23:20
And he said:
The Jews have agreed to ask you
to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow,
as though they were going to inquire somewhat more closely about him;

23:21
but do not be persuaded by them,
for more than forty of their men are lying in ambush for him,
who have bound themselves by an oath
neither to eat,
nor drink,
until they have killed him,
and now they are ready, waiting for your consent.

23:22
So the commander dismissed the young man,
ordering him: Tell no one that you have revealed these things to me.

23:23
And he called two of the centurions
and said:
Get ready two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea,
with seventy horsemen
and two hundred spearmen,
at the third hour of the night,

23:24
and also provide mounts
so that they may set Paul on them and bring him safely to Felix the governor,

23:25
and he wrote a letter having this form:

23:26
Claudius Lysias, to the most excellent governor Felix, greetings.

23:27
This man was seized by the Jews
and was about to be killed by them,
when I came upon them with the soldiers and rescued him,
having learned that he was a Roman citizen,

23:28
and desiring to know the charge for which they were accusing him,
I brought him down to their council.

23:29
I found that he was being accused about questions of their law,
but charged with nothing deserving death or imprisonment.

23:30
And when it was disclosed to me that there would be a plot against the man,
I sent him to you at once,
ordering his accusers also to state their case against him before you.

23:31
So the soldiers, according to their orders, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris;

23:32
and on the next day they let the horsemen go on with him,
and they returned to the barracks;

23:33
and when they had come to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul before him.

23:34
And when he had read the letter and asked what province he was from,
and learning that he was from Cilicia,

23:35
I will give you a hearing, he said,
when your accusers arrive also;
and he ordered him to be kept in Herod's praetorium.
