4:1
Therefore, since Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mindset,
because the one who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,

4:2
so as no longer to live the remaining time in the flesh for human desires but for the will of God.

4:3
For the time that is past is sufficient for having carried out the will of the Gentiles,
having walked in sensuality,
lusts,
drunkenness,
orgies,
carousing,
and lawless idolatries.

4:4
In all this they are surprised
that you do not run with them into the same flood of debauchery,
and they malign you;

4:5
they will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.

4:6
For this reason the gospel was preached even to those who are dead,
so that though judged in the flesh as men, they might live in the spirit as God does.

4:7
The end of all things is at hand.
Therefore be clear-minded
and sober for the sake of prayers;

4:8
above all, keeping your love for one another earnest,
because love covers a multitude of sins;

4:9
be hospitable to one another without grumbling;

4:10
each, just as he has received a gift,
use it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God;

4:11
if anyone speaks, as speaking the oracles of God;
if anyone serves, as out of the strength that God supplies;
so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ,
to whom belong the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen.

4:12
do not be surprised at the fiery trial among you coming
upon you as a test, as
though something strange were happening to you,

4:13
but insofar as you share in the sufferings of Christ,
rejoice,
so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice, exulting.

4:14
If you are insulted in the name of Christ,
you are blessed,
because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.

4:15
But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler;

4:16
but if as a Christian,
let him not be ashamed,
but let him glorify God in this name.

4:17
For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God;
and if it begins first with us,
what will be the outcome for those who disobey the gospel of God?

4:18
And if the righteous one is barely saved,
where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?

4:19
Therefore let those also who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.
