3:1
Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some disobey the word,
through the conduct of their wives they may be won without a word,

3:2
when they observe your pure conduct carried out in fear.

3:3
Let not your adornment be the external one of braiding the hair
and putting on gold or wearing fine garments,

3:4
but the hidden person of the heart
with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit,
which in God's sight is very precious.

3:5
For in this way also the holy women of old who hoped in God used to adorn themselves,
being subject to their own husbands,

3:6
as Sarah obeyed Abraham,
calling him lord;
and you have become her children by doing good and not fearing any intimidation.

3:7
Husbands, likewise, dwelling with them according to knowledge,
as with a weaker vessel,
granting honor to the woman, as fellow heirs of the grace of life,
so that your prayers may not be hindered.

3:8
Finally, all of you be of one mind, sympathetic, loving as brothers, tenderhearted, humble,

3:9
not repaying evil for evil or insult for insult, but on the contrary blessing,
because to this you were called,
that you may inherit a blessing.

3:10
For whoever desires to love life and to see good days,
let him keep his tongue from evil
and his lips from speaking deceit,

3:11
let him turn away from evil
and do good,
let him seek peace
and pursue it.

3:12
For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous
and his ears are open to their prayer, but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.

3:13
And who is there to harm you if you become zealous for what is good?

3:14
But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake,
you are blessed.
Do not fear their threats,
nor be troubled,

3:15
but in your hearts sanctify Christ as Lord,
always ready to make a defense
to everyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you,

3:16
yet with gentleness and fear, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered,
those who revile your good conduct in Christ may be put to shame.

3:17
For it is better, if it is God's will, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.

3:18
Because Christ also suffered once for sins,
the righteous for the unrighteous,
that he might bring you to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit;

3:19
in which also he went and preached to the spirits in prison,

3:20
who formerly disobeyed, when the patience of God was waiting in the days of Noah
while the ark was being prepared,
in which a few, that is, eight souls,
were saved through water.

3:21
Which also, as an antitype, now saves you, namely baptism, not as a removal of dirt from the flesh,
but as an appeal to God for a good conscience,
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,

3:22
who is at the right hand of God,
having gone into heaven,
with angels and authorities and powers having been subjected to him.
