16:1
And having approached the Pharisees and Sadducees, testing they asked Him a sign out of the heaven to show them.

16:2
the And answering He said to them;
Evening having come
you say;
Fair weather,
is red for the sky.

16:3
And in the morning; Today a storm,
is red for being overcast the sky.
hypocrites The indeed appearance of the sky you know [how] to discern,
the however the signs of the times not you are able?

16:4
A generation evil and adulterous a sign seeks;
and a sign not will be given to it only except the sign of Jonah
the And And having left them He went away.

16:5
And having come the disciples of him to the other side they forgot bread to take.

16:6
the And Jesus said to them;
do watch and do beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.

16:7
the And they were reasoning among themselves saying
Because bread not we took.

16:8
Having known [this] however the Jesus said
to them: Why reason you among yourselves, O [you] of little faith,
because bread not you take?

16:9
Not yet do you understand
nor remember the five loaves for the five thousand
and how many hand-baskets you gathered?

16:10
Nor [remember] the seven loaves for the four thousand
and how many baskets you gathered?

16:11
How not understand you that not concerning loaves I spoke to you?
do beware also of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees!

16:12
Then they understood that not He said to beware of the leaven of the loaves but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.

16:13
Having come then the Jesus into the district of Caesarea the Philippi He was questioning the disciples of Him saying;
Whom Me do pronounce the men to be the Son the of man?

16:14
the And they said:
Some indeed, John the Baptist,
others however, Elijah,
others however, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.

16:15
He says to them;
You yourselves but whom Me do you pronounce to be?

16:16
Answering now Simon Peter said;
You yourself are the Christ the Son the of God the living.

16:17
and Answering now the Jesus said to him;
Blessed are you, Simon Barjona!
For flesh and blood not revealed [it] to you
but the Father of Mine who [is] in the heavens.

16:18
I myself also now to you say
that you yourself are Peter
and on this the rock I will build My the church,
and [the] gates of hades not will prevail against it.

16:19
and I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of the heavens,
and whatever if you shall bind on the earth, will be bound in the heavens,
and whatever maybe you shall loose on the earth, will be loosed in the heavens.

16:20
Then he ordered the disciples
of him that to no one they may say
that He himself is Jesus the Christ.

16:21
From that time began the Jesus Christ to show to the disciples of Him
that it is necessary for Him to Jerusalem to go away
and many things to suffer
from the elders
and chief priests
and scribes
and to be killed
and on the third day to be raised.

16:22
And having taken aside Him the Peter began to rebuke Him saying;
Far be it from You, Lord;
certainly not will be to You this.

16:23
the And having turned He said the to Peter;
do go behind Me Satan!
A stumbling block you are to me,
For not your thoughts are of those the of God
but [of] the [things] the of men.

16:24
Then the Jesus said to the disciples of Him;
If anyone desires after Me to come,
he should deny himself
and he should take up the cross of him
and he should follow Me.

16:25
Who[ever] for maybe shall desire the life of him to save, will lose it;
who[ever] however maybe shall lose the life of him on account of Me, will find it.

16:26
What for will it be profitable [for] a man,
if the world whole he shall gain,
the but the soul of him shall lose?
Or what will give a man [as] an exchange for the soul of him?

16:27
Is about for the Son of the man to come in the glory of the Father of Him with the angels of Him
and then He will give to each according to the deeds of him.

16:28
Amen I say to you
that there are some of those here already standing
who certainly not shall taste of death
until when they may have seen the Son the of Man coming in the kingdom of Him.

