2:1
the Now Jesus having been born in Bethlehem the of Judea in [the] days of Herod the king
behold Magi from [the] east
arrived in Jerusalem

2:2
saying;
Where is the [One] having been born King of the Jews?
We saw for His the star in the east
and are come to worship Him.

2:3
Having heard then the King Herod he was troubled
and all Jerusalem with him,

2:4
And having gathered together all the chief priests and scribes of the people he was inquiring of them where the Christ is born.

2:5
the And they said to him; In Bethlehem the of Judea.
thus for it has been written through the prophet:

2:6
And you yourself
Bethlehem land of Judah,
by no means least are among the rulers of Judah;
out of you for will go forth [One] leading
who will shepherd the people of Mine the Israel.’

2:7
Then Herod secretly having called the Magi inquired exactly of them the time of the appearing star,

2:8
And having sent them to Bethlehem he said;
Having gone do search carefully for the Child.
when then You may have found [Him],
do bring word back to me
so that I myself also having come may worship Him.

2:9
the And having heard the king they went away.
and behold the star which they saw in the east was going before them
until having arrived it was stood over where was the Child.

2:10
Having seen now the star they rejoiced [with] joy great exceedingly,

2:11
And having come into the house they saw the Child with Mary the mother of Him,
and having fallen down they worshiped Him,
and having opened the treasures of them they offered to Him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.

2:12
And having been divinely warned in a dream not to return to Herod,
through another route they withdrew into the country of them.

2:13
When were withdrawing then they
behold an angel of [the] Lord appears in a dream the to Joseph saying;
Having arisen do take the Child and the mother of Him
and do flee into Egypt
and do remain there
until when I may tell you;
is about for Herod is to seek the Child the to destroy Him.

2:14
the And having arisen he took the Child and the mother of Him by night
and withdrew into Egypt,

2:15
and he was remaining there until the death of Herod,
so that it may be fulfilled that having been spoken by the Lord through the prophet saying;
Out of Egypt I called the Son of mine.

2:16
Then Herod having seen that he had been outwitted by the Magi
was enraged intensely,
and having sent forth he executed all the boys
that [were] in Bethlehem and in all the vicinity of it from two years old and under
according to the time which he had ascertained from the Magi.

2:17
Then was fulfilled that having been spoken through Jeremiah the prophet saying;

2:18
A voice in Ramah was heard,
lamentation weeping weeping and mourning great,
Rachel weeping [for] the children of her,
and not was willing to be comforted because no more they are.

2:19
When was dying now the Herod behold an angel of [the] Lord appears in a dream the to Joseph in Egypt

2:20
saying;
Having arisen do take the Child and the mother of Him
and do go into [the] land of Israel;
they have died for those seeking the life of the Child.

2:21
the And having arisen he took the Child and the mother of Him
and entered into [the] land of Israel.

2:22
Having heard now that Archelaus rules upon the Judea in place of the father of him Herod
he was afraid there to go.
having been divinely warned now in a dream he withdrew into the district the of Galilee,

2:23
and having come he dwelt in a city being named Nazareth,
so that it may be fulfilled that having been spoken through the prophets
that A Nazarene He will be called.

