12:1
At that [very] the time went the Jesus on the Sabbaths through the grainfields;
the and the disciples of Him hungered
and they began to pluck [the] heads of grain and to eat.

12:2
the And the Pharisees having seen they said to Him;
Behold the disciples of You are doing what not it is lawful to do on Sabbath.

12:3
He then said to them;
Surely you have read what did David when he was hungry he himself and those with him?

12:4
how he entered into the house the of God
and the loaves of the presentation they ate,
that which not lawful it was for him to eat
nor for those with him only except for the priests alone?

12:5
Or surely have you read in the law
that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple the Sabbath profane
and guiltless are?

12:6
I say however to you
that than the temple a greater is here.

12:7
If however you had known what is;
mercy I desire and not [desire] sacrifice,’
not then would you have condemned the guiltless.

12:8
lord for is and of the Sabbath the Son the of Man.

12:9
And having departed from there He went into the synagogue of them.

12:10
And behold a man was a hand a hand having withered;
And they asked Him saying;
Is it is lawful on the Sabbaths to heal?
so that they may accuse Him.

12:11
He then said to them;
Who will there be among you man who will have sheep one,
and if shall fall it on the Sabbaths into a pit,
surely he will take hold of it and will raise [it] up?

12:12
How much therefore is more valuable a man than a sheep?
Therefore it is lawful on the Sabbaths good to do.

12:13
Then He says to the man;
do stretch out your the hand.
And he stretched [it] out,
and it was restored sound as the other.

12:14
Having gone out now the Pharisees a counsel held against Him
how Him they may destroy.

12:15
the And Jesus having known He withdrew from there,
And followed Him multitudes
great, and He healed them all

12:16
and He warned them
that not known Him they may make —

12:17
so that may be fulfilled that having been spoken through Isaiah the prophet saying;

12:18
Behold the servant of Mine whom I have chosen,
the beloved of Mine in whom has found delight the soul of Mine.
I will put the Spirit of Mine upon Him,
and justice to the Gentiles He will proclaim.

12:19
Not will He quarrel
nor will he cry out,
nor will hear anyone in the streets the voice of Him.

12:20
A reed bruised not He will break
and a wick smoldering not He will quench
until when He shall lead to victory the justice.

12:21
And in in the name of Him [the] Gentiles will hope.

12:22
Then was brought to Him [one] being demonised blind and mute,
and He healed him in order for the blind mute [man] mute [man] and to speak and to see.

12:23
And were amazed all the crowds
and were saying;
surely not ever this is the Son of David?

12:24
the And the Pharisees having heard said;
This [man] not casts out the demons only except by the Beelzebul prince of the demons.

12:25
knowing now the the the thoughts of them He said to them;
Every kingdom having been divided against itself is brought to desolation,
and every city or house having been divided against itself not will stand.

12:26
And if the Satan the Satan casts out,
against himself he is divided;
How then will stand the kingdom of him?

12:27
And if I myself by Beelzebul cast out the demons,
the sons of you by whom do they cast out?
On account of this they themselves judges will be of you.

12:28
If however by [the] Spirit of God I myself cast out the demons,
then has come upon you the kingdom the of God.

12:29
Or how is able anyone to enter into the house of the strong [man]
and the goods of him to plunder,
only unless first he shall bind the strong [man]?
And then the house of him he will rob.

12:30
The [one] not being with Me against Me is,
and the [one] not gathering with Me scatters.

12:31
Because of this I say to you;
every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven the to men,
the however against the Spirit blasphemy not will be forgiven

12:32
And who[ever] if shall speak a word against the Son the of Man,
it will be forgiven to him;
who[ever] now maybe shall speak against the Spirit the Holy,
not it will be forgiven to him
neither in this the present age nor in the [one] coming.

12:33
Either do make the tree good and the fruit of it good,
or do make the tree bad and the fruit of it bad;
by for the fruit the tree is known.

12:34
Offspring of vipers,
how are you able good things to speak evil being?
Out of for the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks.

12:35
The good man out of the good treasure the of [his] heart
puts forth the good things, and the evil man out of the [his] evil

12:36
I say now to you
that every declaration careless that if will speak the men,
they will give of it an account in day of judgment.

12:37
By for the words of you you will be justified
and by the words of you you will be condemned.

12:38
Then answered to him some of the scribes and Pharisees saying;
Teacher,
we wish from You a sign to see.

12:39
the And answering He said to them;
A generation evil and adulterous a sign seeks for;
and a sign not will be given to it
only except the sign of Jonah the prophet.

12:40
Just as for was Jonah in the belly of the great fish three days and three nights,
so will be the Son the of Man in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.

12:41
[The] men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with the generation this
and will condemn it,
for they repented at the preaching of Jonah;
and behold greater than Jonah here.

12:42
[The] queen of [the] south will rise up in the judgment with the generation this
and will condemn it,
for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon;
and behold greater than Solomon here.

12:43
When now the unclean spirit may go out from the man,
it passes through waterless places seeking rest
and none finds.

12:44
Then it says;
To the house of mine I will return from where I came out.
And having come it finds [it] being unoccupied,
and swept and ordered.

12:45
Then it goes
and it takes with itself seven other spirits more evil than itself,
and having entered in they dwell there;
and becomes the last the man of that worse than the first.
So it will be also the to generation this the evil.

12:46
While now when He is speaking to the crowds
behold the mother and the brothers of Him had been standing outside
seeking to Him to speak.

12:47
Said now someone to Him;
Behold the mother of You and the brothers of you outside have stood
seeking to You to speak.

12:48
the And answering He said to the [one] telling to Him;
Who is the mother of Mine
and who are the brothers of Mine?

12:49
And having stretched out the hand of Him to the disciples of Him He said;
Behold the mother of Mine and the brothers of Mine.

12:50
Whoever for maybe may do the will the Father of Mine who [is] in [the] heavens,
he himself My brother
and sister
and mother is.

