3:1
In then the days those comes John the Baptist preaching in the wilderness the of Judea

3:2
and
saying; has drawn near has drawn near for the kingdom of the heavens.

3:3
This for is the [One] having been spoken of through Isaiah the prophet saying;
[The] voice of one crying in the wilderness
do prepare the way of [the] Lord,
straight do make the paths of Him.

3:4
Himself now the John was having the garment of him of hair of a camel
and a belt of leather around the waist of him;
the and [the] food was of him locusts and honey wild.

3:5
At that time were going out to him Jerusalem and all the Judea
and all the region around the Jordan,

3:6
and were being baptized in the Jordan River by him
confessing the sins of them.

3:7
Having seen now many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to the baptism of him he said to them;
Brood of vipers,
who forewarned you to flee from the coming wrath?

3:8
do produce therefore fruit worthy the of repentance.

3:9
And not may you presume to say within yourselves;
[As] father we have the Abraham;
I say for to you
that able is the God out of the stones these to raise up children the to Abraham.

3:10
Already now and the ax to the root of the trees is applied.
every therefore tree not producing fruit good is cut down
and into [the] fire is thrown.

3:11
I myself indeed you baptize with water to repentance,
the however after me is coming mightier than I He is
of whom not I am fit the sandals to carry;
He himself you will baptize with [the] Spirit Holy and with fire;

3:12
whose the winnowing fork [is] in the hand of Him,
and He will clear the threshing floor of Him
and will gather the wheat of Him into the barn
of him the but chaff He will burn up with fire unquenchable.

3:13
Then comes the Jesus from the Galilee to the Jordan unto the John
the to be baptized by him.

3:14
the But John was hindering Him saying;
I myself need have by You to be baptized,
and You yourself come to me?

3:15
Answering however the Jesus said unto him;
do permit [it] now; thus for
fitting it is to us to fulfill all righteousness.
Then he permits Him.

3:16
and Having been baptized now the Jesus immediately went up from the water.
and behold were opened to Him the heavens,
and he saw the Spirit the of God descending as a dove
and alighting upon

3:17
And behold a voice out of the heavens saying;
This is the Son of Mine the beloved in whom I was well pleased.

