13:1
In now the day that having gone forth the Jesus from [from] the house was sitting by the sea.

13:2
And were gathered together to Him crowds great so that He into the a boat having climbed into to sit down,
and all the crowd on the shore had stood.

13:3
And He spoke to them many things in parables saying;
Behold went out the [one] sowing the to sow.

13:4
And in the sowing of him
some indeed fell along the road,
and having come the birds and devoured

13:5
Other now fell upon the rocky places
where not it was having soil much,
and immediately it sprang up through the not having depth of soil.

13:6
when [the] sun now having risen
they were scorched,
and through the not having root were dried up.

13:7
Other now fell upon the thorns,
and grew up the thorns
and choked them.

13:8
Other now fell upon the soil the good
and were yielding fruit,
some indeed a hundredfold,
some however sixty,
some however thirty.

13:9
The [one] having ears to hear

13:10
And having come the disciples said to Him;
Because of why in parables speak You to them?

13:11
the And answering He said to them;
Because to you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of the heavens,
to them however not it has been granted.

13:12
Whoever for has, will be given to him and will be abundant [to him]
whoever now not has, even what he has will be taken away from him.

13:13
Because of this in parables to them I speak
Because seeing not do they see and hearing not do they hear nor do they understand.

13:14
And is fulfilled concerning them the prophecy of Isaiah who is saying:
In hearing you will hear and certainly not may understand,
and looking you will look and certainly not may perceive.

13:15
Has grown dull for the heart of the people this,
and with the ears barely they have heard,
and the eyes of them they have closed;
otherwise they may see with the eyes
and with the ears they may hear
and with the heart they may understand
and may return
and I will heal them.’

13:16
Of you however blessed [are] the eyes because they see
and the ears of you because they hear.

13:17
Amen for I say to you
that many prophets and righteous [men] longed to see what you see, and not saw,
and to hear what you hear, and not heard.

13:18
You yourselves therefore do hear the parable of the [one] having sown:

13:19
Everyone hearing the word of the kingdom and not understanding
comes the evil one
and snatches away that having been sown in the heart of him;
This is the [one] on the path having been sown.

13:20
That which now upon the rocky places having been sown, this is the [one] the word hearing
and immediately with joy receiving it.

13:21
no he has now root in himself
but temporary is.
when is coming however tribulation or persecution on account of the word
immediately he falls away.

13:22
That which now among the thorns having been sown, this is the [one] the word hearing,
and the care of the age this and the deceit the of riches choke the word,
and unfruitful it becomes.

13:23
That however on the good the soil having been sown, this is the [one] the word hearing and understanding,
who indeed brings forth fruit and produces —
some indeed a hundredfold,
some however sixty,
some however thirty.

13:24
Another parable put He before them saying;
Has become like the kingdom of the heavens a man having sown good seed in the field of him.

13:25
In now the [time] to sleep the men
came his the enemy
and over-sowed weeds in [the] midst of the wheat
and went away.

13:26
When now sprouted the plants and fruit produced,
then appeared also the weeds.

13:27
Having come to [him] now the servants of the master of the house said to him;
Sir, surely good seed did you sow in the your field?
How then has it the

13:28
He then was saying to them;
An enemy a man this did.
the And the servants they say to him:
Do you desire then [that] having gone forth we shall gather them?

13:29
the And he says; No,
lest when gathering the weeds you may uproot together [with] them the wheat.

13:30
do allow to grow together both until the harvest;
and in the time of the harvest I will say to the harvesters;
do gather first the weeds
and do bind them into bundles in order the to burn them;
the and the wheat do gather together into the barn of mine.’

13:31
Another parable put He before them saying;
Like is the kingdom of the heavens to a grain of mustard,
which having taken a man sowed in the field of him;

13:32
which smallest indeed is of all the seeds,
when however it may be grown, greater than the garden plants it is
and becomes a tree
so that to come the birds of the air
and perching in the branches of it.

13:33
Another parable spoke He to them:
Like is the kingdom of the heavens to leaven,
which having taken a woman hid in of flour measures three
until of it was leavened all.

13:34
These things all spoke the Jesus in parables to the crowds
and without a parable no [thing] He was speaking to them,

13:35
so that may be fulfilled that having been spoken through the prophet saying;
I will open in parables the mouth of Mine,
I will utter [things] hidden from [the] foundation

13:36
Then having dismissed the crowds He went into the house
the And And came to Him the disciples of Him saying;
do explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field.

13:37
the And answering He said
to them: The [One] sowing the good seed is the Son the of Man;

13:38
the and the field is the world;
the and [the] good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom;
the and the weeds are the sons of the evil [one];

13:39
the and the enemy which having sown them is the devil;
the and the harvest [the] consummation of the age
is; the and the harvesters angels are.

13:40
As therefore is gathered the weeds and in fire is burned up,
thus it will be in the consummation of the age

13:41
Will send forth the Son the of Man the angels of Him,
and they will gather out of the kingdom of Him all the causes of sin
and those practicing the lawlessness

13:42
and they will cast them into the furnace of the fire;
there will be the weeping and the gnashing the of teeth.

13:43
Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of the Father of them.
The [one] having ears to hear

13:44
again Like is the kingdom of the heavens to treasure hidden in the field,
which having found a man hid.
and for the joy of it goes
and he sells all as much as he has
and buys the field that.

13:45
Again like is the kingdom of the heavens to a man a merchant
seeking fine pearls.

13:46
who having found now one very precious pearl, having gone away he has sold all things as much as he was having
and he bought it.

13:47
Again like is the kingdom of the heavens to a dragnet having been cast into the sea
and of every kind having gathered together,

13:48
which when it was filled having drawn up on the shore
and having sat down they collected the good into vessels,
the and bad out they cast.

13:49
Thus will it be in the consummation of the age;
will go out the angels
and will separate the evil from [the] midst of the righteous

13:50
and will cast them into the furnace of the fire;
There will be the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth.

13:51
says to them the
Jesus Did you understand these things

13:52
He then said to them;
Because of this every scribe having been discipled into [in] the kingdom of the heavens
like is to a man a master of a house
who puts forth out of the treasure of him [things] new and old.

13:53
And it came to pass
when finished the Jesus the parables these,
He withdrew from there;

13:54
And having come into the region of Him He was teaching them in the synagogue of them so that to be astonished they and to say:
From where [came] to this [man] the wisdom this and the miraculous powers?

13:55
Surely this is the of the carpenter Son?
Surely the mother of Him is named Mary?
And the brothers of Him James
and Joseph
and Simon
and Judas?

13:56
And the sisters of Him surely all with us are?
From where then to this [man] these things all?

13:57
And they were offended at Him.
the But Jesus said to them;
Not is a prophet without Honor only except in the hometown of him and in the household of him.

13:58
And not He did there miracles many because of the unbelief of them.

