4:1
Therefore since Christ suffered in the flesh,
arm yourselves also with the same way of thinking,
because the one who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,

4:2
so as to live no longer for human desires but for the will of God
the remaining time in the flesh.

4:3
For the time already past is sufficient for you to have carried out the desire of the Gentiles,
having walked in sensuality, lusts, drunkenness, carousing, drinking parties,
and abominable idolatries.

4:4
In this they are surprised
that you do not run with them into the same flood of dissipation, and they malign you;

4:5
they will give account to the one who is ready to judge the living and the dead;

4:6
for the gospel was preached even to those who are dead,
so that though they are judged according to men in the flesh they may live
according to God in the spirit.

4:7
The end of all things is near.
Therefore be of sound judgment
and sober-minded for the purpose of prayer;

4:8
above all keep your love for one another fervent,
because love covers a multitude of sins;

4:9
be hospitable to one another without grumbling;

4:10
as each one has received a gift,
use it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God;

4:11
if anyone speaks,
let it be as the utterances of God;
if anyone serves,
let it be as from the strength which God supplies;
so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ,
to whom belongs the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen.

4:12
Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial among you,
which comes upon you for testing as though something strange were happening to you,

4:13
but to the degree that you share in the sufferings of Christ
keep on rejoicing,
so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exultation.

4:14
If you are insulted for the name of Christ,
you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.

4:15
For let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler;

4:16
but if anyone suffers as a Christian,
let him not feel ashamed,
but let him glorify God in this name.

4:17
For it is time for judgment to begin with the household of God;
and if it begins with us first,
what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God?

4:18
And if the righteous is scarcely saved,
where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?

4:19
Therefore those also who suffer according to the will of God
shall entrust their souls to a faithful Creator in doing good.
