3:1
Likewise wives, submitting yourselves to your own husbands
so that even if some are disobedient to the word
through the conduct of their wives they may be won without a word

3:2
having observed your respectful and pure conduct.

3:3
Whose adornment let it not be the outward braiding of hair
and wearing of gold ornaments or putting on of garments,

3:4
but the hidden person of the heart
in the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit,
which is of great value before God.

3:5
For in this way also the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves,
submitting themselves to their own husbands,

3:6
as Sarah obeyed Abraham,
calling him lord;
whose children you have become when you do good and do not fear any intimidation.

3:7
Husbands likewise, living together according to knowledge,
as with a weaker vessel,
the female one, showing them honor, as also fellow heirs of the grace of life,
so that your prayers may not be hindered.

3:8
And finally, all of you be like-minded, sympathetic, loving one another, compassionate, humble,

3:9
not returning evil for evil or insult for insult
but on the contrary blessing, because to this you were called,
so that you may inherit a blessing.

3:10
For the one who desires to love life and to see good days
let him stop his tongue from evil
and his lips from speaking deceit,

3:11
let him turn away from evil
and do good,
let him seek peace
and pursue it;

3:12
because the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous
and his ears are attentive to their prayer, but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.

3:13
And who is the one who will harm you
if you become zealous for what is good?

3:14
But even if you should suffer for righteousness,
you are blessed.
And do not fear their threat
nor be troubled,

3:15
but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts,
always ready for a defense
to everyone who asks you for a reason for the hope in you,

3:16
but with gentleness and reverence, keeping a good conscience,
so that in what you are spoken against
those who malign your good conduct in Christ may be put to shame.

3:17
For it is better to suffer for doing good,
if the will of God should so will, than for doing evil.

3:18
Because Christ also suffered once for sins,
the righteous for the unrighteous,
so that he might bring you to God, having been put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit;

3:19
in which also he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,

3:20
who formerly were disobedient, when the patience of God waited in the days of Noah
while an ark was being constructed
into which a few, that is eight souls,
were brought safely through water.

3:21
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
which also as an antitype now saves you: baptism, not the removal of dirt from the flesh
but the pledge of a good conscience toward God,

3:22
who is at the right hand of God
having gone into heaven, with angels and authorities and powers having been subjected to him.
