2:1
Therefore putting aside all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander,

2:2
like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk,
so that by it you may grow in respect to salvation,

2:3
if you have tasted that the Lord is good.

2:4
Coming to him, a living stone,
rejected by men but chosen and precious in God's sight

2:5
you yourselves also as living stones are being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood,
to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ;

2:6
for it is contained in Scripture:
Behold I lay in Zion a choice stone, a precious corner stone,
and the one who believes in him will not be put to shame.

2:7
To you therefore who believe belongs the honor;
but for those who disbelieve, the stone
which the builders rejected
has become the chief corner stone

2:8
and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense;
they stumble
because they disobey the word;
to which they were also appointed.

2:9
But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his possession,
so that you may proclaim the excellencies of the one who called you out of darkness
into his marvelous light;

2:10
you who once were not a people
but now are the people of God,
who had not received mercy but now have received mercy.

2:11
Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the desires of the flesh,
which wage war against the soul;

2:12
keeping your conduct among the Gentiles honorable,
so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may because of your good works as they observe them
glorify God on the day of visitation.

2:13
Submit yourselves to every human institution for the Lord's sake; whether to a king as supreme,

2:14
or to governors as sent through him
for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right

2:15
(for such is the will of God,
that by doing good you silence the ignorance of foolish people);

2:16
act as free people, and do not use your freedom as a covering for evil,
but use it as God's slaves.

2:17
Honor all people,
love the brotherhood,
fear God,
honor the king.

2:18
Servants, be subject
to your masters with all respect,
not only to those who are good and gentle but also to those who are harsh.

2:19
For this is grace if because of conscience toward God anyone bears up under sorrows when suffering unjustly;

2:20
for what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten you endure it?
But if when you do good and suffer you endure it,
this is grace before God.

2:21
For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for you,
leaving you an example
so that you should follow in his steps;

2:22
who committed no sin
nor was deceit found in his mouth;

2:23
who when reviled did not revile in return, when suffering did not threaten,
but kept entrusting himself to the one who judges justly;

2:24
who himself bore our sins in his body on the tree,
so that having died to sins we might live to righteousness;
by his wounds you were healed.

2:25
For you were like sheep
going astray, but now you have returned to the shepherd and guardian of your souls.
