6:1
As many as are under a yoke as slaves,
The own masters
Of all honor worthy let them esteem so that not the name of God and the teaching should be blasphemed.

6:2
Those now believing having masters
Not let them despise them because brothers they are;
But rather let them serve them,
Because believing ones they are and beloved by the good service being helped These things teach and exhort.

6:3
If anyone teaches another doctrine
And not draws near
The being sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ,
And the according to godliness teaching,

6:4
He is puffed up nothing knowing
But unhealthy about controversies and disputes about words
Out of which come envy strife slander suspicions evil,

6:5
And constant frictions corrupted among men in mind and destitute of the truth,
Holding a means of gain to be godliness.

6:6
But is gain great godliness with contentment;

6:7
For nothing we brought into the world,
Because neither to carry out anything are we able;

6:8
But having sustenance and coverings,
With these we will be content.

6:9
But those desiring to be rich
Fall into temptation and a snare and desires many foolish and harmful,
Which plunge men into ruin and destruction;

6:10
A root for of all kinds of evils is the love of money,
Which some stretching after
Have been seduced away from the faith
And themselves have pierced with sorrows many.

6:11
You however,
O man of God,
These things flee;
Pursue now righteousness godliness faith love endurance and gentleness.

6:12
Fight the good fight of the faith,
Lay hold of the eternal life
To which you were called and also did confess the good confession before many witnesses.

6:13
I charge you before God the one giving life to all things
And Christ Jesus who testified before Pontius Pilate the good confession,

6:14
To keep you the commandment without stain above reproach,
Until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,

6:15
Which seasons in the own He will display the blessed and alone Sovereign,
The King of those being kings
And the Lord of those being lords,

6:16
Alone having immortality,
In light dwelling unapproachable,
Whom has seen no one of men
Nor to see is able;
To whom be honor and dominion eternal Amen.

6:17
In God the one providing us all things richly for enjoyment,
To the rich in the present age instruct them not to be high-minded
Nor to have hope on of riches the uncertainty,

6:18
To do good to be rich in works good,
Generous in distributing to be ready to share,

6:19
Treasuring up for themselves a foundation good for the future,
So that they may take hold of that which is indeed life.

6:20
O Timothy,
The deposit committed to you guard,
Avoiding profane empty babblings and opposing arguments falsely called knowledge,

6:21
Which some professing
From the faith have gone astray.
Grace be with you all.

