1:1
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ
according to the commandment of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ our hope;

1:2
to Timothy, my true child in faith:
Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

1:3
As I urged you when I was going into Macedonia, stay at Ephesus
that you might command certain men not to teach a different doctrine,

1:4
and not to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies,
which cause disputes, rather than God’s stewardship, which is in faith —

1:5
but the goal of this command is love, out of a pure heart
and a good conscience and sincere faith;

1:6
from which things some, having missed the mark, have turned aside to vain talking;

1:7
desiring to be teachers of the law, though
they understand neither what they say, nor about what they strongly affirm.

1:8
But we know that the law
is good, if a person uses it lawfully,

1:9
as knowing this, that law is not made for a righteous person, but
for the lawless and insubordinate, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy
and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,

1:10
for the sexually immoral, for homosexuals, for slave-traders, for liars, for perjurers,
and for any other thing contrary to the sound doctrine;

1:11
according to the Good News of the glory of the blessed God,
which was committed to my trust.

1:12
And I thank him who enabled me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he counted me faithful, appointing me
to service;

1:13
although I was before a blasphemer, a persecutor,
and insolent. However, I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly
in unbelief.

1:14
The grace of our Lord abounded exceedingly with faith
and love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:15
The saying is faithful and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world
to save sinners;
of whom I am chief.

1:16
However, for this cause I obtained mercy,
that in me first, Jesus Christ might display all his patience,
for an example of those who were going to believe in him for eternal life.

1:17
Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God
who alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.

1:18
This instruction I commit to you, my child
child Timothy,
Timothy, according to the prophecies which led the way
to you, that by them you may wage the good warfare;

1:19
holding faith and a good conscience;
which some
having thrust away made a shipwreck concerning the faith;

1:20
of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander;
whom I delivered to Satan,
that they might be taught not to blaspheme.

