5:1
An elder not do rebuke,
But exhort him as a father,
Younger men as brothers,

5:2
Elder women as mothers and younger women as sisters in all purity.

5:3
Widows honor who are truly widows.

5:4
If however any widow children or grandchildren has,
Let them learn first to the own household to be devout
And recompense to give to parents,
This for is pleasing before God.

5:5
She who is now indeed a widow and being left alone has hope in God
And continues in supplications and prayers night and day;

5:6
But she living in self-indulgence while living is dead.

5:7
Also these things command,
So that above reproach they should be;

5:8
If now anyone the own and especially his household not does provide for,
The faith he has denied
And he is than an unbeliever worse.

5:9
A widow let be enrolled not less than years old sixty being of one man the wife,

5:10
In works good being borne witness to if she has brought up children,
If she entertained strangers if saints’ feet she has washed,
If to those being oppressed she has imparted relief,
If every work good she has followed after.

5:11
But younger widows refuse;
When for they might grow wanton against Christ to marry they desire,

5:12
Incurring judgment because the first faith they have cast off;

5:13
At the same time then also to be idle they learn going about house to house not only then idle
But also gossips and busybodies speaking things not being proper.

5:14
I want therefore the younger ones to marry to bear children,
To manage their households no occasion to give the one opposing
Of reproach on account;

5:15
For already some have turned aside after Satan.

5:16
If any believing woman has dependent widows,
Let her impart relief to them,
And not let be burdened the church,
So that to those who are truly widows it may impart relief.

5:17
The well ruling elders of double honor let be counted worthy,
Especially those straining in the word and the teaching;

5:18
For says the Scripture An ox treading out grain not you shall muzzle,
And Worthy is the workman of the wages of him.

5:19
Against an elder an accusation not do receive except if not upon two or three witnesses;

5:20
Those sinning before all rebuke so that also the rest fear might have.

5:21
I earnestly testify before God and Christ Jesus and the elect angels,
That these things you should keep apart from prejudice,
Nothing doing out of partiality.

5:22
Hands hastily on no one lay,
Nor share in the sins of others;
Yourself pure keep.

5:23
No longer drink only water but wine a little use because of the stomach and the frequent of you ailments.

5:24
Of some men the sins manifest are,
Going before them to judgment of some however also they appear later;

5:25
Likewise also the works good are evident,
And even those otherwise being to be concealed not able.

