9:1
Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints,

9:2
for I know your eagerness,
which I boast about to the Macedonians,
saying that Achaia has been ready since last year,
and your zeal has stirred up most of them.

9:3
But I am sending the brothers
so that our boasting about you may not prove empty in this matter,
so that you may be ready,
as I said you would be.

9:4
Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me
and find you unprepared,
we would be humiliated -- to say nothing
of you -- for being so confident.

9:5
So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you
and arrange in advance the generous gift
you have promised, so that it may be ready as a generous gift, not as an extortion.

9:6
The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly,
and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.

9:7
Each one must give as he has decided in his heart,
not reluctantly or under compulsion,
for God loves a cheerful giver.

9:8
And God is able to make all grace abound to you,
so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times,
you may abound in every good work.

9:9
As it is written,
"He has distributed freely; he has given to the poor;
his righteousness endures forever."

9:10
He who supplies seed to the sower
and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed
and increase the harvest of your righteousness.

9:11
You will be enriched in every way for all your generosity,
which through us will produce thanksgiving to God.

9:12
For the ministry of this service is not only
supplying the needs of the saints,
but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God.

9:13
By their approval of this service, they will glorify God
because of your submission that comes from your confession of the gospel of Christ,
and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all,

9:14
while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing
grace of God upon you.

9:15
Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!
