10:1
Now I myself, Paul, appeal to you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ --
I who am humble when face to face with you,
but bold toward you when absent!

10:2
I ask that when I am present I not need to be bold with the confidence
by which I intend to be daring against some who regard us
as walking according to the flesh.

10:3
For though we walk in the flesh, we do not wage war according to the flesh --

10:4
for the weapons of our warfare are not fleshly,
but divinely powerful for the destruction of strongholds --
tearing down arguments

10:5
and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God,
and taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ,

10:6
and being ready to punish all disobedience,
whenever your obedience is complete.

10:7
Look at what is before your face.
If anyone has confidence in himself that he belongs to Christ,
let him consider this again within himself, that just as he belongs to Christ,
so also do we.

10:8
For even if I boast somewhat more about our authority,
which the Lord gave for building up and not for tearing you down,
I will not be put to shame.

10:9
I say this so that I may not seem as though I would terrify you by my letters.

10:10
For they say, "His letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak,
and his speech amounts to nothing."

10:11
Let such a person consider this:
that what we are in word through letters
when absent, such we are also in deed when present.

10:12
For we do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves.
But when they measure themselves by themselves and compare
themselves with themselves, they lack understanding.

10:13
But we will not boast beyond our limits,
but according to the measure of the territory
which God apportioned to us as a measure, to reach even as far as you --

10:14
for we are not overextending ourselves as though we did not reach you,
for we were the first to come even as far as you with the gospel of Christ --

10:15
not boasting beyond our limits in the labors of others,
but having hope
that as your faith grows,
we will be greatly enlarged among you according to our territory, and beyond,

10:16
to proclaim the gospel in regions beyond you,
not to boast in another's territory about work already done.

10:17
But let the one who boasts boast in the Lord.

10:18
For it is not the one who commends himself
who is approved,
but the one whom the Lord commends.

