3:1
This is now, beloved, the second letter I am writing to you,
in which I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder,

3:2
to remember the words spoken beforehand by the holy prophets
and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles,

3:3
knowing this first of all
that in the last days scoffers will come with their scoffing,
walking according to their own desires

3:4
and saying:
Where is the promise of his coming?
For ever since the fathers fell asleep,
all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation.

3:5
For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago
and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God,

3:6
through which the world at that time was destroyed, being flooded with water;

3:7
but the present heavens and earth by his word are being stored up for fire,
reserved for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly people.

3:8
But do not let this one fact escape your notice, beloved, that one day with the Lord
is like a thousand years and a thousand years like one day.

3:9
The Lord is not slow about his promise, as
some consider slowness,
but is patient toward you,
not wishing for any to perish but for all to come to repentance.

3:10
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief,
in which the heavens will pass away with a roar,
and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat,
and the earth and its works will be found out.

3:11
Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way,
what sort of people must you be in holy conduct and godliness,

3:12
looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God,
because of which the heavens will be destroyed by burning
and the elements will melt with intense heat;

3:13
but according to his promise we are looking for new heavens and a new earth,
in which righteousness dwells.

3:14
Therefore, beloved, since you look for these things,
be diligent to be found by him in peace, spotless and blameless,

3:15
according to the wisdom given him he wrote to you,
and regard the patience of our Lord as salvation,
just as also our beloved brother Paul

3:16
as also in all his letters speaking in them about these things,
in which are some things hard to understand,
which the untaught and unstable distort, as they do also the rest of the Scriptures,
to their own destruction.

3:17
You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, be on your guard,
so that you are not carried away by the error of unprincipled men and fall from your own steadfastness,

3:18
but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
To him be the glory
both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.
