2:1
You therefore,
Child my,
Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus,

2:2
And the things which you have heard from me among many witnesses,
These entrust to faithful men,
Such as sufficient will be
Also others to teach.

2:3
Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.

2:4
No one serving as a soldier entangles himself in the of this life affairs,
That who enlisted him he might please;

2:5
If now also competes anyone,
Not he is crowned if not lawfully he shall have competed;

2:6
For the hardworking farmer it is necessary first of the fruits to partake.

2:7
Consider the things I am saying;
Will give for you the Lord understanding in all things.

2:8
Remember Jesus Christ having been raised out from the dead of the seed of David,
According to gospel my;

2:9
In which I suffer hardship,
Even to chains as an evildoer But the word of God not is bound;

2:10
Because of this all things I endure
For the sake of the elect so that also they
The salvation may obtain that is in Christ Jesus with glory eternal.

2:11
Trustworthy is the saying;
If for we have died together with Him,
Also we will live together with Him;

2:12
If we endure also we will reign together with Him;
If we will deny Him He also will deny us;

2:13
If we are faithless He faithful remains to deny Himself not He is able.

2:14
These things remind them solemnly charging them before the Lord not to quarrel about words for nothing profitable,
But to the subversion of those hearing.

2:15
Hasten yourself approved to present to God a workman not ashamed,
Accurately handling the word of truth.

2:16
But worldly empty babblings avoid;
On to more for they will lead ungodliness,

2:17
And the talk of them like gangrene pasture to grow will have;
Among whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,

2:18
Who concerning the truth have gone astray,
Asserting resurrection already to have taken place,
And they are overthrowing the of some faith.

2:19
Nevertheless the firm foundation of God stands,
Having the seal this;
Knows the Lord those being His,
And Let depart from iniquity everyone naming the name of the Lord.

2:20
In a great now house not there are only vessels golden and silver
But also wooden and earthen,
And some indeed unto honor
Some however unto dishonor;

2:21
If therefore anyone shall have cleansed himself from these he will be a vessel for honor having been sanctified,
Useful to the Master,
For every work good having been prepared.

2:22
And youthful lusts flee,
Pursue now righteousness faith love and peace
Along with those calling on the Lord out of pure a heart.

2:23
And foolish and ignorant speculations refuse,
Knowing that they breed quarrels;

2:24
The bond-servant now of the Lord not it behooves to quarrel but gentle to be toward all able to teach forbearing,

2:25
In gentleness disciplining those opposing,
Perhaps may give them God repentance unto a knowledge of the truth,

2:26
And they might come to their senses out of the of the devil snare,
Having been captured by him for his will.

