28:1
And once we were brought safely through, we then learned
that the island was called Malta.

28:2
And the native people showed us extraordinary kindness,
for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all
because of the rain that had set in and because of the cold.

28:3
And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and put them on the
fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand.

28:4
And when the native people saw the creature hanging from his hand,
they said to one another:
This man is certainly a murderer,
whom, though saved from the sea, Justice has not allowed to live.

28:5
He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm;

28:6
but they were expecting him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. And after they had waited a long
time and saw nothing unusual happen to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.

28:7
Now in the neighborhood of that place
were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius,
who received us and entertained us hospitably for three days.

28:8
And it happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery,
and Paul visited him and prayed,
and putting his hands on him healed him.

28:9
And after this had taken place, the rest of the people
on the island who had diseases also came and were cured,

28:10
and they honored us with many honors,
and when we were about to sail they put on board whatever we needed.

28:11
After three months we set sail in a ship that had wintered in the island,
an Alexandrian ship with the twin gods as a figurehead.

28:12
And putting in at Syracuse we stayed there for three days,

28:13
and from there we made a circuit and arrived at Rhegium.
And after one day a south wind sprang up
and on the second day we came to Puteoli,

28:14
where we found brothers and were invited to stay with them for seven days;
and so we came to Rome.

28:15
And the brothers there, when they heard about us, came as far as the Forum of
Appius and Three Taverns to meet us; and on seeing them Paul thanked God and took courage.

28:16
And when we came into Rome,
Paul was allowed to stay by himself,
with the soldier who guarded him.

28:17
And after three days he called together the
local leaders of the Jews; and when they had
gathered he said to them: I, brothers, though I
had done nothing against our people or the
customs of our fathers, was delivered as a
prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,

28:18
who, when they had examined me, wished to set me free
because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case;

28:19
but because the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar,
not that I had any charge to bring against my nation.

28:20
For this reason therefore I have asked to see you and speak with you,
since it is because of the hope of Israel that I am wearing this chain.

28:21
And they said to him:
We have received no letters from Judea about you,
and none of the brothers coming here has reported or spoken anything bad about you.

28:22
But we desire to hear from you what you think,
for with regard to this sect we know
that everywhere it is spoken against.

28:23
And when they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers,
and he expounded to them, testifying to the kingdom of God,
and trying to persuade them about Jesus
both from the Law of Moses and from the Prophets,
from morning till evening.

28:24
And some were convinced by what he said,
but others disbelieved,

28:25
and disagreeing among themselves they departed,
after Paul had made one statement:
The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet:

28:26
saying:
Go to this people and say:
You will indeed hear but never understand,
and you will indeed see but never perceive;

28:27
for the heart of this people has grown dull,
and with their ears they can barely hear,
and their eyes they have closed;
lest they should see with their eyes
and hear with their ears
and understand with their heart
and turn,
and I would heal them.

28:28
Therefore let it be known to you
that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles;
they will listen.

28:30
And he lived there two whole years at his own expense,
and welcomed all who came to him,

28:31
proclaiming the kingdom of God
and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ
with all boldness and without hindrance.
