26:1
And Agrippa said to Paul:
You are permitted
to speak for yourself.
Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:

26:2
Concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews,
King Agrippa, I consider myself fortunate
that it is before you I am to
make my defense today,

26:3
especially because you are an expert in all the customs and controversies of the Jews;
therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.

26:4
My manner of life from my youth,
the life lived from the beginning
among my own nation and in Jerusalem, all the Jews know,

26:5
having known me for a long time,
if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee.

26:6
And now I stand on trial because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers,
for which I stand here on trial,

26:7
to which our twelve tribes hope to attain
as they earnestly serve God night and day;
and for this hope I am accused by the Jews, O king!

26:8
Why is it judged incredible among you if God raises the dead?

26:9
Indeed I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things
in opposition to the name of Jesus the Nazarene;

26:10
and this I did in Jerusalem,
and I locked up many of the saints in prisons
having received authority from the chief priests,
and when they were put to death I cast my vote against them,

26:11
and punishing them often in all the synagogues
I tried to force them to blaspheme,
and being furiously enraged at them I persecuted them even to foreign cities.

26:12
In this connection, as I was journeying to Damascus
with the authority and commission of the chief priests,

26:13
at midday along the road I saw, O king, a light from heaven brighter than the sun shining around me
and those traveling with me;

26:14
and when we all fell to the ground
I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
It is hard for you to kick against the goads.

26:15
And I said:
Who are you, Lord?
And the Lord said:
I am Jesus whom you are persecuting;

26:16
but rise
and stand on your feet;
for I have appeared to you for this purpose,
to appoint you as a servant
and a witness both of the things you have seen of me
and of the things in which I will appear to you,

26:17
delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles,
to whom I am sending you

26:18
to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light
and from the power of Satan to God,
that they may receive forgiveness of sins
and an inheritance among those who have been sanctified by faith in me.

26:19
Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,

26:20
and to turn to God,
but I declared first to those in Damascus and in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea,
and to the Gentiles, that they should repent
doing deeds worthy of their repentance.

26:21
For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me.

26:22
So having obtained the help that comes from God
I stand to this day testifying both to small and great,
saying nothing beyond
what the prophets said would happen
and Moses,

26:23
that the Christ would suffer,
that being first to rise from the dead
he would proclaim light both to the people and to the Gentiles.

26:24
And as he was saying these things in his defense
Festus said with a loud voice:
You are out of your mind, Paul!
Your great learning is driving you insane.

26:25
But Paul said:
I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true and rational words.

26:26
For the king knows about these things
and to him I speak boldly; for I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice,
for this was not done in a corner.

26:27
Do you believe the prophets, King Agrippa?
I know
that you believe.

26:28
And Agrippa said to Paul:
In a short time you are trying to persuade me
to become a Christian!

26:29
And Paul said:
I would pray to God that both in a short time and in a long time not only you
but also all who hear me today would become such
as I am
except for these chains.

26:30
And the king rose, and the governor and Bernice and those sitting with them,

26:31
and as they withdrew they spoke to one another
saying: This man is doing nothing deserving of death or imprisonment.

26:32
And Agrippa said to Festus: This man could have been set free
if he had not appealed to Caesar.
