6:1
Now in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying,
a complaint arose from the Hellenists against the Hebrews,
because their widows were being neglected in the daily service.

6:2
And the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said,
It is not appropriate for us, having forsaken the word of God,
to serve tables;

6:3
therefore select,
brothers,
seven men from among you of good reputation, full of the Spirit and wisdom,
whom we may appoint over this task.

6:4
But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word.

6:5
And the word pleased the whole multitude,
and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit,
and Philip and Prochorus and Nicanor
and Timon and Parmenas
and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch,

6:6
whom they set before the apostles;
and having prayed, they laid their hands on them.

6:7
And the word of God was increasing,
and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was multiplying greatly,
and a great company of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith.

6:8
And Stephen, full of grace and power,
was performing great wonders and signs among the people.

6:9
But some of those who were of the synagogue called the Libertines rose up,
and of the Cyrenians and Alexandrians
and of those from Cilicia and Asia,
disputing with Stephen,

6:10
and they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke.

6:11
Then they secretly induced men to say,
We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God.

6:12
And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes,
and coming upon him, they seized him
and brought him before the council,

6:13
and set up false witnesses who said,
This man does not stop speaking words
against this holy place and the law;

6:14
for we have heard him saying
that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place
and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us.

6:15
And gazing at him, all who sat in the council
saw his face like the face of an angel.
