17:1
And passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia they came to Thessalonica,
where there was a synagogue of the Jews.

17:2
And according to Paul's custom he went in to them
and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the Scriptures,

17:3
explaining and demonstrating that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer
and to rise from the dead,
and that this is the Christ—Jesus
whom I am proclaiming to you.

17:4
And some of them were persuaded
and joined Paul and Silas,
as did a great number of the God-fearing Greeks and not a few of the leading women.

17:5
But the Jews became jealous and took along some wicked men from the marketplace
and forming a mob they threw the city into an uproar,
and attacking the house of Jason they sought to bring them out to the assembly;

17:6
and when they did not find them
they dragged Jason and some brothers before the city officials,
shouting: Those who have
turned the world upside down have come here also,

17:7
and Jason has welcomed them;
and they all act against the decrees of Caesar,
saying there is another king—Jesus.

17:8
And they disturbed the crowd and the city officials
who heard these things,

17:9
and having received a bond from Jason and the others
they released them.

17:10
And the brothers immediately
during the night sent both Paul and Silas away to Berea,
who upon arriving went to the synagogue of the Jews;

17:11
now these were more noble than those in Thessalonica,
who received the word with all eagerness,
examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.

17:12
Many of them therefore believed,
and of the prominent Greek women and men not a few.

17:13
But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned
that the word of God was being proclaimed by Paul also in Berea,
they came there too, agitating and disturbing the crowds.

17:14
And immediately then the brothers sent Paul away
to go as far as the sea;
but Silas and Timothy remained there.

17:15
And those who escorted Paul brought him as far as Athens,
and receiving a command
for Silas and Timothy to come to him as quickly as possible, they departed.

17:16
Now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens,
his spirit was provoked within him
as he observed that the city was full of idols.

17:17
So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the God-fearers
and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.

17:18
And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him,
and some were saying:
What would this babbler wish to say?
And others said: He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities—
because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.

17:19
And taking hold of him
they brought him to the Areopagus, saying:
May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting?

17:20
For you are bringing some strange things to our ears;
we therefore want to know what these things mean.

17:21
Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time in nothing else
than telling
or hearing something new.

17:22
And Paul, standing in the middle of the Areopagus, said:
Men of Athens,
I observe that in every way you are very religious;

17:23
for as I passed through and observed your objects of worship
I found also an altar on which had been inscribed:
To an Unknown God.
What therefore you worship without knowing,
this I proclaim to you.

17:24
The God who made the world and everything in it,
he, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made by hands

17:25
nor is he served by human hands
as though he needed anything,
since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things;

17:26
and he made from one every nation of humanity to live on the whole face of the earth,
having determined appointed times and the boundaries of their dwelling,

17:27
to seek God
if perhaps they might grope for him and find him,
and indeed he is not far from each one of us.

17:28
For in him we live and move and exist,
as even some of your own poets have said:
For we are also his offspring.

17:29
Being therefore God's offspring, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by human craft and imagination.

17:30
So the times of ignorance God overlooked,
but now he commands all people everywhere to repent,

17:31
because he has set a day
on which he is going to judge the world in righteousness by a man
whom he appointed,
having given proof to all
by raising him from the dead.

17:32
Now when they heard about a resurrection of the dead
some began to mock
but others said: We will hear you again about this.

17:33
So Paul departed from their midst;

17:34
but some men joined him and believed,
among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris
and others with them.
