4:1
And while they were speaking to the people,
the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,

4:2
being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people
and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead,

4:3
and they laid hands on them
and put them in custody until the next day,
for it was already evening.

4:4
But many of those who had heard the word
believed, and the number of the men came to about five thousand.

4:5
And it happened on the next day that their rulers gathered together
and the elders and the scribes in Jerusalem,

4:6
(and Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander,
and all who were of the high-priestly family),

4:7
and having set them in the middle
they were inquiring,
By what power or by what name did you do this?

4:8
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them,
Rulers of the people and elders,

4:9
if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a sick man,
by what means this man has been saved,

4:10
let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel,
that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene,
whom you crucified,
whom God raised from the dead, by him this man stands before you healthy.

4:11
This is the stone that was rejected by you the builders,
which has become the cornerstone.

4:12
And there is salvation in no one else,
for there is no other name under heaven given among men
by which we must be saved.

4:13
And observing the boldness of Peter and John,
and perceiving that they were uneducated
and ordinary men, they were astonished,
and they recognized that they had been with Jesus.

4:14
And seeing the man
standing with them,
the one who had been healed, they had nothing to say in reply.

4:15
But having ordered them to go outside the council,
they were conferring with one another,

4:16
saying,
What shall we do with these men?
For that a notable sign has been done through them
is evident to all who dwell
in Jerusalem, and we are not able to deny it;

4:17
but so that it may spread no further among the people,
let us warn them to speak no longer to anyone in this name.

4:18
And having called them in,
they commanded them not to speak at all or teach in the name of Jesus.

4:19
But Peter and John answered and said to them,
Whether it is right in the sight of God
to listen to you rather than to God, you judge,

4:20
for we are not able,
we cannot stop speaking about what we have seen and heard.

4:21
And after further threatening them, they released them,
finding no way to punish them, because of the people,
for all were glorifying God for what had happened;

4:22
for the man was more than forty years old
on whom this sign of healing had been done.

4:23
And having been released they went to their own people
and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.

4:24
And when they heard it, they raised their voice to God with one accord
and said,
Sovereign Lord, you who made the heaven
and the earth and the sea and everything in them,

4:25
who through the Holy Spirit, by the mouth of our father David your servant, said,
Why did the nations rage
and the peoples plot in vain?

4:26
The kings of the earth took their stand
and the rulers gathered together against the Lord
and against his Christ.

4:27
For truly in this city there gathered together against your holy servant Jesus,
whom you anointed,
both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,

4:28
to do whatever your hand and your purpose predetermined to happen.

4:29
And now, Lord, look upon their threats
and grant to your servants to speak your word with all boldness,

4:30
while you stretch out your hand for healing,
and signs and wonders are done through the name of your holy servant Jesus.

4:31
And when they had prayed,
the place was shaken
in which they were gathered,
and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit,
and they were speaking the word of God with boldness.

4:32
And the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul,
and not one of them was saying that any of his possessions
was his own,
but they had everything in common.

4:33
And with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus,
and great grace was upon them all.

4:34
For there was not a needy person among them; for all
who were owners of lands or houses,
selling them, were bringing the proceeds of what was sold

4:35
and placing them at the feet of the apostles;
and it was distributed to each, as anyone
had need.

4:36
And Joseph, who was surnamed Barnabas by the apostles,
which translated means son of encouragement,
a Levite, a native of Cyprus,

4:37
having a field that belonged to him,
sold it and brought the money
and placed it at the feet of the apostles.
