15:1
And some who came down from Judea were teaching the brothers
that Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses,
you cannot be saved.

15:2
And when no small dispute and debate arose for Paul and Barnabas against them
they appointed Paul and Barnabas and some others of them to go up
to the apostles and elders
in Jerusalem about this question.

15:3
So being sent on their way by the church, they passed through Phoenicia and Samaria
describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles,
and they brought great joy to all the brothers.

15:4
And when they arrived in Jerusalem they were received by the church
and the apostles and the elders,
and they reported all that God had done with them.

15:5
But some of those from the sect of the Pharisees rose up
who had believed, saying that it is necessary to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses.

15:6
And the apostles and the elders gathered together to look into this matter.

15:7
And after much debate had taken place
Peter stood up and said to them: Brothers, you know that in the early days
God chose among you
that through my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe,

15:8
and God who knows the heart bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us,

15:9
and he made no distinction between us and them,
having cleansed their hearts by faith.

15:10
So now why are you testing God, by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples
which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?

15:11
But through the grace of the Lord Jesus we believe that we will be saved in the same way
as they will.

15:12
And all the assembly fell silent,
and they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they described
all that God had done—
signs and wonders among the Gentiles through them.

15:13
And after they finished speaking
James answered, saying:
Brothers, listen to me.

15:14
Simeon has explained
how God first visited to take from the Gentiles a people for his name.

15:15
And with this the words of the prophets agree,
just as it is written:

15:16
After these things I will return
and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen
and I will rebuild its ruins and I will restore it,

15:17
so that the rest of humanity may seek the Lord,
and all the Gentiles
upon whom my name has been called upon them,
says the Lord who does these things

15:18
known from of old.

15:19
Therefore I judge that we should not trouble those from among the Gentiles who are turning to God,

15:20
but should write to them to abstain from the pollutions of idols and from sexual immorality and from what is strangled and from blood;

15:21
For Moses from ancient generations has in every city those who proclaim him,
being read in the synagogues every Sabbath.

15:22
along with Paul and Barnabas,
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders with the whole church to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch
from among them to send to Antioch
Judas called Barsabbas and Silas,
men who were leaders among the brothers,

15:23
having written by their hand:
The apostles and the elders, brothers, to the brothers in Antioch and Syria
and Cilicia who are from the Gentiles: Greetings.

15:24
Since we have heard that some from among us went out and troubled you with words
unsettling your souls
to whom we gave no instructions,

15:25
it seemed good to us, having become of one mind,
to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,

15:26
men who have risked their lives
for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:27
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas,
and they themselves will also report the same things by word of mouth.

15:28
For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit
and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these essential things:

15:29
to abstain from food sacrificed to idols and from blood and from things strangled and from sexual immorality;
if you keep yourselves from these,
you will do well.
Farewell.

15:30
So those who were sent off went down to Antioch,
and having gathered the assembly together
they delivered the letter;

15:31
and when they read it they rejoiced at the encouragement.

15:32
And Judas and Silas, who were themselves also prophets,
encouraged the brothers with many words
and strengthened them;

15:33
and after spending some time they were sent away in peace from the brothers
to those who had sent them.

15:35
But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch
teaching and proclaiming the good news, with many others also, of the word of the Lord.

15:36
And after some days Paul said to Barnabas:
Let us return now and visit the brothers in every city
in which we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are doing.

15:37
And Barnabas wanted to take along also John called Mark;

15:38
but Paul thought it best not to take along the one who had departed from them in Pamphylia
and had not gone with them to the work—
not to take this one along.

15:39
And a sharp disagreement arose,
so that they separated from one another,
and Barnabas took Mark and sailed away to Cyprus,

15:40
but Paul chose Silas
and went out, having been commended to the grace of the Lord by the brothers,

15:41
and he passed through Syria and Cilicia
strengthening the churches.
