6:1
Children,
Obey the parents of you in the Lord,
This for is right;

6:2
Honor the Father of you and mother,
Which is the commandment first with a promise,

6:3
That well with you it may be
And you will be long-lived upon the earth.

6:4
And fathers,
Not provoke the children of you,
But bring up them in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.

6:5
Slaves,
Obey the according to flesh masters
With fear and trembling in sincerity of the heart of you as to Christ,

6:6
Not with eye-service as men-pleasers
But as servants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart

6:7
With good will rendering service as to the Lord and not to men,

6:8
Knowing that each one whatever * he might have done
Good this he will receive back from the Lord,
Whether slave or free.

6:9
And masters,
The same things them do toward them,
Giving up the threatening,
Knowing that also of them and of you the master is in the heavens,
And partiality not there is with Him.

6:10
Henceforth be empowered in the Lord and in the strength of the might his.

6:11
Put on the complete armor of God
For to be able you to stand against the schemes of the devil;

6:12
Because not is to us the wrestling against blood
And flesh but against the rulers against the authorities,
Against the cosmic powers of the darkness this,
Against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.

6:13
Because of this take up the complete armor of God,
So that you may be able to withstand in the day evil
And all things having done to stand.

6:14
Stand therefore having girded the loins of you with truth,
And having put on the breastplate of righteousness,

6:15
And having shod the feet with the readiness of the gospel of peace,

6:16
Besides all having taken up the shield of faith
With which you will be able all the arrows of the evil one flaming to quench;

6:17
And the helmet of salvation take and the sword of the Spirit,
Which is the word of God,

6:18
Through all prayer and supplication praying in every season in the Spirit,
And unto this very thing watching with all perseverance
And supplication for all saints,

6:19
And also for me,
That to me may be given divine utterance in the opening my of mouth,
With boldness to make known the mystery of the gospel

6:20
For which I am an ambassador in a chain,
That in it I may be bold as it behooves me to speak.

6:21
That now may know also you the things concerning me what I am doing,
All things will make known to you Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful servant in the Lord,

6:22
Whom I have sent to you for this very purpose,
That you may know the things concerning us
And he may encourage the hearts of you.

6:23
Peace to the brothers and love with faith
From God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

6:24
Grace be with all those our loving Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility.

