2:1
Then after fourteen years again I went up to Jerusalem with Barnabas
Having taken with me also Titus;

2:2
I went up now according to a revelation;
And set before them the gospel
That I proclaim among the Gentiles,
Apart individually however to those esteemed lest hardly in vain I should be running or have run.

2:3
But not even Titus who was with me a Greek being was compelled to be circumcised;

2:4
Because of even the brought in secretly false brothers,
Who came in by stealth to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus,
That us

2:5
To whom not even for an hour did we yield in subjection,
So that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.

2:6
Of now those esteemed to be
Whatsoever formerly they were
Not to me makes a difference;
The person God of a man not to me for the esteemed nothing added,

2:7
But on the contrary having seen that I have been entrusted with the gospel of the uncircumcision,
Just as Peter with that of the circumcision,

2:8
The one for having worked in Peter for apostleship of the circumcision did
Also in me toward the Gentiles,

2:9
And having known the grace having been given to me,
James and Cephas and John those esteemed pillars to be,
The right hands gave to me and Barnabas of fellowship that we should go
To the Gentiles they however to the circumcision;

2:10
Only they asked the poor that we should remember,
That also I was eager the same thing to do.

2:11
But when came Peter to Antioch,
To face his I opposed him because condemned he stood;

2:12
For before came certain ones from James
With the Gentiles he was eating;
When however they came he was drawing back
And was separating himself,
Being afraid of those of the circumcision.

2:13
And acted hypocritically with him also the rest of the Jews,
So that even Barnabas was carried away of them by the hypocrisy.

2:14
But when I saw that not they are walking uprightly according to the truth of the gospel,
I said to Peter before all;
If you a Jew being like a Gentile and not like a Jew live,
Why the Gentiles do you compel to Judaize?

2:15
We by birth Jews
And not of the Gentiles sinners,

2:16
Knowing nevertheless that not is justified a man by works of law
If not through faith from Jesus Christ,
Even we in Christ Jesus have believed that we may be justified by faith from Christ
And not by works of the Law,
Because by works of the Law not will be justified any flesh.

2:17
If however seeking to be justified in Christ
Have been found also we ourselves sinners,
Is then Christ of sin a minister?
Never may it be;

2:18
If for that I had torn down
These things again I build,
A transgressor myself I prove.

2:19
For i through the Law to the Law died,
That to God I might live;
Christ crucified with;

2:20
I live now no longer I,
Lives however in me Christ;
Christ that which I have been crucified with then now I live in the flesh through faith
I live that from the Son of God who loved me
And having given up Himself for me.

2:21
Not I do set aside the grace of God;
If for through the Law righteousness is,
Then Christ for naught died.

