12:1
Therefore we also, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us,
laying aside every weight and the sin that so easily entangles,
let us run with endurance the race set before us,

12:2
fixing our eyes on Jesus the pioneer and perfecter of faith,
who instead of the joy that was set before him
endured a cross
despising the shame,
and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.

12:3
For consider the one who endured such hostility from sinners
against himself,
so that you may not grow weary in your souls, losing heart.

12:4
You have not yet resisted to the point of blood
struggling against sin,

12:5
and you have forgotten the exhortation
which addresses you as sons:
My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord,
nor grow faint
when you are reproved by him;

12:6
for whom the Lord loves
he disciplines, and he scourges every son
whom he receives.

12:7
Endure for the sake of discipline;
God is dealing with you as sons;
for what son is there
whom a father does not discipline?

12:8
But if you are without discipline
of which all have become partakers,
then you are illegitimate and not sons.

12:9
Furthermore we had the fathers of our flesh as discipliners
and we respected them;
shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live?

12:10
For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed good to them,
but he for our benefit so that we may share in his holiness.

12:11
Now all discipline for the present does not seem to be a matter of joy
but of grief, yet afterward
it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those trained by it.

12:12
Therefore strengthen the drooping hands and the weakened knees,

12:13
and make straight paths for your feet,
so that what is lame may not be put out of joint,
but rather be healed.

12:14
Pursue peace with everyone, and holiness,
without which no one will see the Lord,

12:15
watching carefully lest anyone falls short of the grace of God,
lest any root of bitterness springing up causes trouble
and through it many be defiled,

12:16
lest there be any sexually immoral or profane person like Esau,
who for a single meal sold his birthright.

12:17
For you know that even afterward when he wanted to inherit the blessing
he was rejected,
for he found no opportunity for repentance, although
he sought it earnestly with tears.

12:18
For you have not come to something that can be touched and that is burning
with fire and darkness and gloom and tempest

12:19
and the sound of a trumpet and a voice of words,
which those who heard begged that no further word be spoken to them;

12:20
for they could not bear what was commanded: Even if a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned;

12:21
and so terrifying was the spectacle that
Moses said:
I am terrified and trembling.

12:22
But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God,
the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, in festal gathering

12:23
and to the assembly of the firstborn enrolled in heaven,
and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,

12:24
and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood
that speaks better than Abel.

12:25
See to it
that you do not refuse the one who is speaking;
for if those did not escape
on earth
who refused the one who warned them,
much less will we
who turn away from the one who warns from heaven;

12:26
whose voice shook the earth then,
but now he has promised, saying:
Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heaven.

12:27
Now this Yet once more indicates the removal of the things that are shaken,
as things that have been made, so that the things not shaken may remain.

12:28
Therefore since we are receiving an unshakable kingdom
let us be grateful
through which let us worship God acceptably with reverence and awe,

12:29
for indeed our God is a consuming fire.
