11:1
Now faith is the substance of things hoped
for, the evidence of things not seen;

11:2
for by it the elders received their testimony.

11:3
By faith we understand that the ages were framed by the word of God, so that what is seen
did not come into being from things that are visible.

11:4
By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain,
through which he was testified to be righteous,
God testifying about his gifts,
and through it, though he died, he still speaks.

11:5
By faith Enoch was taken up so as not to see death,
and he was not found,
because God had taken him up;
for before his translation he had been testified to have pleased God,

11:6
and without faith it is impossible to please
him, for the one who comes to God must believe that he exists and
that to those who seek him he becomes a rewarder.

11:7
By faith Noah, having been warned about things not yet seen,
in reverence constructed an ark for the salvation of his household,
through which he condemned the world,
and became heir of the righteousness that is according to faith.

11:8
By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place
which he was about to receive as an inheritance, and he went out
not knowing where he was going.

11:9
By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as a foreign land,
dwelling in tents
with Isaac and Jacob, fellow heirs of the same promise;

11:10
for he was waiting for the city that has foundations,
whose architect and builder is God.

11:11
By faith even Sarah herself received power
for the conception of offspring even beyond the season of her age,
since she considered faithful the one who had promised;

11:12
therefore also from one man were born, and him as good as dead,
descendants as many as the stars of heaven
in multitude and as the sand by the shore of the sea, innumerable.

11:13
In faith all these died
not having received the promises,
but having seen and greeted them from afar,
and having confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.

11:14
For those who say such things make clear that they are seeking a homeland.

11:15
And if indeed they were remembering the one from which they departed,
they would have had opportunity to return;

11:16
but now they desire a better one, that is, a heavenly
one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them to be called their God, for
he has prepared a city for them.

11:17
By faith Abraham offered up Isaac
when tested, and the one who had received the promises was offering up his only son,

11:18
the one to whom it was said: In Isaac your offspring will be named,

11:19
having reckoned that God was able even to raise him from the dead; from
which he also received him back as a symbol.

11:20
By faith Isaac also blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.

11:21
By faith Jacob, while dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph,
and worshiped leaning on the top of his staff.

11:22
By faith Joseph, as he was dying, made mention of the exodus of the sons of Israel,
and gave instructions concerning his bones.

11:23
By faith Moses, when born, was hidden for three months by his parents,
because they saw the child was beautiful
and they were not afraid of the decree of the king.

11:24
By faith Moses, when he had grown up,
refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,

11:25
choosing rather to suffer with the people of God
than to have the fleeting enjoyment of sin,

11:26
considering the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt,
for he was looking toward the reward.

11:27
By faith he left Egypt,
not fearing the anger of the king,
for he endured as seeing the invisible one.

11:28
By faith he instituted the Passover and the sprinkling of blood,
so that the destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them.

11:29
By faith they crossed the Red Sea as through dry land,
which the Egyptians attempting were swallowed up.

11:30
By faith the walls of Jericho fell after being encircled for seven days.

11:31
By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with the disobedient,
having received the spies with peace.

11:32
And what more shall
I say? For time will fail
me telling about Gideon, Barak,
Samson, Jephthah, David and Samuel and the prophets,

11:33
who through faith conquered kingdoms,
worked righteousness,
obtained promises,
shut the mouths of lions,

11:34
quenched the power of fire,
escaped the edge of the sword,
were strengthened from weakness,
became mighty in war,
turned to flight armies of foreigners;

11:35
women received back their dead by resurrection; but others
were tortured, not accepting
release, so that they might
obtain a better resurrection;

11:36
and others experienced the trial of mockings and scourgings,
and also chains and imprisonment;

11:37
they were stoned,
they were sawn in two,
they died by murder of the sword,
they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins,
destitute, afflicted, mistreated,

11:38
of whom the world was not
worthy, wandering in
deserts and mountains and caves and holes of the earth;

11:39
and all these, having been testified to through their
faith, did not receive the promise,

11:40
since God had foreseen something better concerning us,
so that apart from us they would not be made perfect.
