2:1
For this reason we must pay far greater attention to what we have heard,
lest we drift away.

2:2
For if the word spoken through angels proved reliable,
and every transgression and act of disobedience received its just penalty,

2:3
how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation,
which, having first been declared through the Lord,
was confirmed to us by those who heard,

2:4
according to his own will?
while God bore witness alongside by signs and wonders
and various demonstrations of power and distributions of the Holy Spirit

2:5
For it was not to angels that he subjected the coming world,
about which we are speaking;

2:6
but someone has testified somewhere, saying:
What is a human being that you remember him,
or a son of man that you attend to him?

2:7
You made him a little lower than the angels,
with glory and honor you crowned him,

2:8
you subjected all things beneath his feet;
for in subjecting
all things
he left nothing unsubjected to him.
But now we do not yet
see all things subjected to him;

2:9
but we do see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, crowned with glory and honor on account of the suffering of death,
so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.

2:10
For it was fitting for him,
for whom are all things
and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory
to perfect the pioneer of their salvation through sufferings.

2:11
For both the one who sanctifies and those being sanctified are all from one;
for this reason he is not ashamed
to call them brothers,

2:12
saying:
I will proclaim your name to my brothers, in the midst of the assembly I will sing your praise;

2:13
and again:
I will put my trust in him;
and again:
Here am I
and the children
whom God has given me.

2:14
Since therefore the children share in blood and flesh,
he himself likewise partook of the same things,
so that through death he might destroy the one holding the power of death,
that is, the devil,

2:15
and might set free these,
as many as through fear of death throughout all their living
were held in bondage.

2:16
For surely it is not angels he takes hold of,
but the offspring of Abraham he takes hold of.

2:17
Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect,
so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God,
to make atonement for the sins of the people;

2:18
for in that he himself has suffered when tested, he is able to help those who are being tested.
