1:1
Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James,
to those who are loved in God the Father
and kept for Jesus Christ, called:

1:2
may mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you.

1:3
Beloved,
while making every effort to write to you about our common salvation,
I felt the necessity to write to you
urging you to contend earnestly for the faith once for all delivered to the saints.

1:4
For certain men have crept in unnoticed,
those who were long beforehand designated for this judgment,
ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into sensuality
and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ.

1:5
Now I want to remind you, though you once fully knew all this,
that Jesus, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt,
afterward destroyed those who did not believe,

1:6
and angels who did not keep their own domain
but abandoned their proper dwelling,
he has kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day;

1:7
just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities,
which in the same way as these indulged in sexual immorality
and went after strange flesh,
are exhibited as an example by undergoing the punishment of eternal fire.

1:8
Yet in the same way these dreamers also
defile the flesh,
reject authority,
and blaspheme glorious ones.

1:9
But Michael the archangel,
when he disputed with the devil and argued about the body of Moses,
did not dare bring a judgment of blasphemy,
but said: The Lord rebuke you.

1:10
But these men revile the things which they do not understand,
and the things which they know by instinct like unreasoning animals,
by these things they are destroyed.

1:11
Woe to them,
for they walked in the way of Cain,
and abandoned themselves to the error of Balaam for wages,
and perished in the rebellion of Korah.

1:12
These are the ones who are hidden reefs in your love feasts when they feast with you,
caring for themselves without fear,
waterless clouds carried along by winds,
autumn trees without fruit, doubly dead, uprooted,

1:13
wild waves of the sea casting up the foam of their own shame,
wandering stars for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever.

1:14
And Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied also about these, saying:
Behold, the Lord came with his holy myriads,

1:15
to execute judgment against all
and to convict all the ungodly
concerning all their ungodly deeds which they have done in ungodliness,
and concerning all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him.

1:16
These are grumblers, finding fault,
following after their own desires,
and their mouth speaks arrogantly,
flattering people for the sake of advantage.

1:17
But you,
beloved,
remember the words previously spoken
by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ;

1:18
that they were saying to you:
In the last time there will be mockers,
following after their own ungodly desires.

1:19
These are the ones who cause divisions, worldly, not having the Spirit.

1:20
But you,
beloved,
building yourselves up on your most holy faith,
praying in the Holy Spirit,

1:21
keep yourselves in the love of God
waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.

1:22
And have mercy on those who are doubting,

1:23
and save others snatching them out of the fire,
and on others have mercy with fear,
hating even the garment stained by the flesh.

1:24
Now to the one who is able to keep you from stumbling
and to make you stand in the presence of his glory blameless with great joy,

1:25
to the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord,
be glory, majesty, dominion and authority,
before all time and now and forever. Amen.
