3:1
In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar,
while Pontius Pilate was governing Judea,
and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee,
and his brother Philip was tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis,
and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene,

3:2
during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas,
the word of God came upon John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness.

3:3
And he went into all the region around the Jordan
proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins,

3:4
as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet,
A voice crying in the wilderness,
Prepare the way of the Lord,
make his paths straight.

3:5
Every valley shall be filled
and every mountain and hill shall be brought low,
and the crooked shall become straight
and the rough ways shall become smooth,

3:6
and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.

3:7
He said therefore to the crowds coming out to be baptized by him,
You brood of vipers,
who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?

3:8
Bear fruits worthy of repentance,
and do not begin to say among yourselves,
We have Abraham as our father,
for I tell you
that God is able from these stones to raise up children to Abraham.

3:9
Even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees.
Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit
is cut down and thrown into the fire.

3:10
And the crowds asked him saying,
What then shall we do?

3:11
And he answered and said to them,
The one who has two tunics must share with the one who has none,
and the one who has food must do likewise.

3:12
And tax collectors also came to be baptized
and said to him,
Teacher,
what shall we do?

3:13
And he said to them,
Collect no more than what is appointed for you.

3:14
And soldiers also asked him saying,
What shall we do, even we?
And he said to them,
Do not extort anyone
or accuse falsely,
and be content with your wages.

3:15
As the people were in expectation
and all were questioning in their hearts about John,
whether he might be the Christ,

3:16
John answered saying to all,
I baptize you with water,
but one mightier than I is coming,
whose sandal strap I am not worthy to untie.
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.

3:17
His winnowing fork is in his hand
to clear his threshing floor
and to gather the wheat into his barn,
but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.

3:18
So with many other exhortations
he preached good news to the people.

3:19
But Herod the tetrarch,
being rebuked by him concerning Herodias his brother's wife
and concerning all the evil things Herod had done,

3:20
added this also to them all:
he locked John up in prison.

3:21
And it happened when all the people were baptized
and Jesus also having been baptized and praying,
the heaven was opened,

3:22
and the Holy Spirit descended upon him in bodily form like a dove,
and a voice came from heaven,
You are my beloved Son,
in you I am well pleased.

3:23
And Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began,
being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph, the son of Eli,

3:24
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,

3:25
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,

3:26
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,

3:27
the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,

3:28
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,

3:29
the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,

3:30
the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,

3:31
the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,

3:32
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon,

3:33
the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,

3:34
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,

3:35
the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah,

3:36
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,

3:37
the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan,

3:38
the son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
