3:1
Finally my brothers rejoice in the Lord.
The same things to write to you
To me indeed is not troublesome,
For you now is safe.

3:2
Beware of the dogs,
Beware of the evil workers,
Beware of the false circumcision.

3:3
For we are the circumcision those in the Spirit of God worshiping
And glorying in Christ Jesus
And not in the flesh having put confidence,

3:4
Though I have confidence even in the flesh.
If any thinks other to have confidence
In the flesh I more;

3:5
Circumcision on the eighth day,
Of the nation of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin a Hebrew of Hebrews according to the Law a Pharisee,

3:6
According to zeal persecuting the church,
According to righteousness which is in the Law having become faultless.

3:7
But whatever things were to me gain,
These I have esteemed because of Christ loss.

3:8
But more than that also I count all things loss to be because of the excelling knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord
Because of whom all things I have lost,
And esteem them rubbish that Christ I may gain

3:9
And be found in Him,
Not having my own righteousness which is of the Law but that through faith from Christ
The of God righteousness on the basis of faith,

3:10
To know Him and the power of the resurrection his and fellowship sufferings his,
Being conformed to his death,

3:11
If by any means I may attain to the resurrection out from dead.

3:12
Not that already I have obtained it
Or already have been perfected,
I am pursuing however if also I may lay hold
Of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ.

3:13
Brothers I myself not do consider to have taken hold of it;
One thing however The things indeed behind forgetting
To the things now ahead reaching forward,

3:14
Toward the goal I press on for the prize of the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus.

3:15
As many as therefore are mature,
This should be of mind;
And if in anything differently you are minded,
Even this God to you will reveal;

3:16
Nevertheless to that which we have attained,
By the same to walk.

3:17
Imitators together my be,
Brothers and observe those thus walking as you have for a pattern us;

3:18
For many are walking
Of whom often I told you,
Now indeed even weeping I say as enemies of the cross of Christ,

3:19
Whose end is destruction,
Whose God is the belly and glory is in the shame of them those things earthly minding.

3:20
Of us for the citizenship in the heavens exists,
From whence also a Savior we are awaiting the Lord Jesus Christ,

3:21
Who will transform the body of humiliation our conformed to the body of the glory of Himself
According to the working enabling Him even to subdue to Himself all things.
