12:1
And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun,
and the moon beneath her feet,
and on her head a crown of twelve stars,

12:2
and she was with child;
and she cries out, in labor and in agony to give birth.

12:3
And another sign appeared in heaven,
and behold, a great fiery red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns
and on his heads seven diadems,

12:4
and his tail sweeps away a third of the stars of heaven,
and he threw them to the earth.
And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth,
so that when she bore her child he might devour it.

12:5
And she gave birth to a son, a male child,
who is about to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod;
and her child was snatched up to God and to his throne.

12:6
And the woman fled into the wilderness,
where she has a place prepared by God,
so that they might nourish her there for one thousand two hundred sixty days.

12:7
And war broke out in heaven,
Michael and his angels waging war with the dragon.
And the dragon
fought, and his angels,

12:8
and he did not prevail,
nor was a place found for them any longer in heaven.

12:9
And the great dragon was thrown down, the ancient serpent,
the one called the Devil and Satan,
the one who deceives the whole world-- he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels
were thrown down with him.

12:10
And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying:
Now have come the salvation and the power
and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ,
because the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down,
the one who accuses them before our God day and night.

12:11
And they conquered him by the blood of the Lamb
and by the word of their testimony,
and they did not love their lives, even unto death;

12:12
therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them.
Woe to the earth
and the sea, because the devil has come down to you,
having great fury,
knowing that he has little time.

12:13
And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth,
he pursued the woman
who had given birth to the male child.

12:14
And the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman,
so that she might fly into the wilderness to her place,
where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time, away from the face of the serpent.

12:15
And the serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman,
so that he might cause her to be swept away by the flood.

12:16
And the earth helped the woman,
and the earth opened its mouth
and swallowed up the river
which the dragon poured out of his mouth;

12:17
and the dragon was enraged at the woman,
and went off to make war with the rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God
and hold to the testimony of Jesus;

12:18
and he stood on the sand of the sea.
