2:1
To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write:
These things says the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand,
the one who walks in the midst of the seven golden lampstands:

2:2
I know your works, and your labor and your endurance, and that you
are not able to tolerate evil people,
and you tested those who call themselves apostles and are
not, and found them false;

2:3
and you have endurance,
and you have borne up for the sake of my name,
and you have not grown weary.

2:4
But I have this against you, that you have abandoned your first love.

2:5
Remember therefore from where you have fallen,
and repent
and do the first works;
but
if not, I am coming to you,
and I will remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.

2:6
But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.

2:7
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
the assemblies. To the one who conquers I will give to eat from the
tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.

2:8
And to the angel of the assembly in Smyrna write:
These things says the first and the last,
who was dead and came to life:

2:9
I know your affliction and your poverty, but you are rich, and
the slander from those who say they are Jews, and
are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.

2:10
Do not fear what you are about to suffer.
Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison
so that you may be tested,
and you will have affliction for ten days.
Be faithful unto death,
and I will give you the crown of life.

2:11
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
the assemblies. The one who conquers will not be harmed by the second death.

2:12
And to the angel of the assembly in Pergamum write:
These things says the one who has the sharp two-edged sword:

2:13
I know where you dwell, where the throne of
Satan is, and you hold fast
to my name, and you did not
deny my faith even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful
one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.

2:14
But I have a few things against you,
because you have there those who hold the teaching of Balaam,
who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel,
to eat food sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality;

2:15
so also you have those who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans likewise.

2:16
Repent therefore; but
if not, I am coming to you quickly,
and I will wage war against them with the sword of my mouth.

2:17
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the
assemblies. To the one who conquers I will give some of the
hidden manna, and I will give him
a white stone, and on the stone a new name
written which no one knows except the one who receives it.

2:18
And to the angel of the assembly in Thyatira
write: These things says the Son of
God, who has eyes like a flame of fire,
and his feet are like burnished bronze:

2:19
I know your works, and your love and
faith and service and endurance, and
your last works are more than the first.

2:20
But I have this against you,
that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and she
teaches and deceives my servants to commit sexual immorality and
to eat food sacrificed to idols.

2:21
And I gave her time so that she might repent,
and she does not want to repent of her sexual immorality.

2:22
Behold, I am throwing her onto a sickbed,
and those who commit adultery with her into great affliction,
unless they repent of her works;

2:23
and her children I will strike dead with pestilence;
and all the assemblies will know that
I am the one who searches minds and hearts, and I
will give to each of you according to your works.

2:24
But I say to you, the rest who are in Thyatira,
as many as do not hold this teaching,
who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they say,
I place on you no other burden;

2:25
only what you have hold fast until I come.

2:26
And the one who conquers and the one who keeps my works until the end,
I will give him authority over the nations,

2:27
and he will shepherd them with an iron
rod, as vessels of clay are shattered,

2:28
just as I also have received from my Father,
and I will give him the morning star.

2:29
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.
