6:1
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals,
and I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a voice like thunder: Come.

6:2
And I looked, and there was a white horse
and the one seated on it
holding a bow,
and a crown was given to him,
and he went out conquering and to conquer.

6:3
And when he opened the second seal,
I heard the second living creature saying: Come.

6:4
And out came another horse, fiery red,
and to the one seated on it was given permission to take peace from the earth
so that people would slaughter one another,
and a great sword was given to him.

6:5
And when he opened the third seal,
I heard the third living creature saying:
Come.
And I looked,
and there was a black horse
and the one seated on it
holding a pair of scales in his hand.

6:6
And I heard what seemed like a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying:
A quart of wheat for a denarius,
and three quarts of barley for a denarius;
but do not damage the oil and the wine.

6:7
And when he opened the fourth seal,
I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying: Come.

6:8
And I looked, and there was a pale horse,
and the one seated on it— his name was Death,
and Hades followed with him,
and authority was given to them over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword
and with famine and with plague and by the wild beasts of the earth.

6:9
And when he opened the fifth seal,
I saw under the altar the souls of those slain for the word of God
and for the testimony they held.

6:10
And they cried out with a loud voice saying:
How long, O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, will you not judge
and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?

6:11
And a white robe was given to each of them,
and they were told
to rest a little while longer, until the number was complete of their fellow servants
and their brothers who were about to be killed as they themselves had been.

6:12
And I saw when he opened the sixth seal,
and a great earthquake occurred,
and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair,
and the whole moon became like blood,

6:13
and the stars of heaven fell
to the earth, as a fig tree drops its unripe figs
when shaken by a mighty wind,

6:14
and the sky was split apart like a scroll being rolled up,
and every mountain and island were moved from their places.

6:15
And the kings of the earth and the great ones
and the generals and the rich and the powerful
and every slave and free person hid themselves
in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains;

6:16
and they say to the mountains and to the rocks:
Fall on us
and hide us from the face of the one seated on the throne
and from the wrath of the Lamb,

6:17
because the great day of their wrath has come,
and who is able to stand?
