18:1
After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven,
having great authority,
and the earth was illuminated by his glory.

18:2
And he cried out with a mighty voice saying:
Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great,
and a haunt of every unclean and detested beast,
and she has become a dwelling place of demons and a haunt of every unclean spirit
and a haunt of every unclean bird

18:3
because all the nations have fallen from the wine of the fury of her sexual immorality,
and the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality with her,
and the merchants of the earth grew rich from the power of her luxury.

18:4
And I heard another voice from heaven saying:
Come out of her, my people,
so that you do not share in her sins,
and so that you do not receive any of her plagues;

18:5
because her sins have been heaped up
to heaven, and God has remembered her crimes.

18:6
Pay her back as she herself has paid,
and double the double according to her works;
in the cup in which she mixed,
mix a double portion for her;

18:7
to the degree that she glorified herself
and lived in luxury,
give her that much torment and grief.
Because in her heart she says: I sit as a queen, and I am not a widow,
and I will never see grief.

18:8
For this reason in a single day her plagues will come, death and grief and famine,
and she will be burned with fire;
because mighty is the Lord God who has judged her.

18:9
And the kings of the earth will weep and mourn over her,
those who committed sexual immorality and lived in luxury with her,
when they see the smoke of her burning,

18:10
standing far off because of the fear of her torment, saying:
Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon the mighty city,
because in a single hour your judgment has come.

18:11
And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her,
because no one buys their cargo anymore,

18:12
cargo of gold and silver and precious stones
and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet,
and all citron wood and every ivory vessel
and every vessel of most costly wood and bronze and iron and marble,

18:13
and cattle and sheep, and horses and chariots and bodies, and human souls.
and cinnamon and spice and incense and myrrh and frankincense
and wine and olive oil and fine flour and wheat

18:14
And the fruit your soul desired has gone from you,
and all the luxurious and splendid things have perished from you,
and never again will they find them.

18:15
The merchants of these things, who grew rich from her,
will stand far off because of the fear of her torment,
weeping and mourning,

18:16
saying:
Woe, woe, the great city, clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet
and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls,

18:17
because in a single hour such great wealth has been laid waste.
And every ship captain and everyone
who sails to a place, and sailors
and all who work the sea,
stood at a distance

18:18
and cried out seeing the smoke of her burning, saying:
What city is like the great city?

18:19
And they threw dust on their heads
and cried out weeping and mourning, saying:
Woe, woe, the great city,
in which all who had ships at sea grew rich
from her wealth, because in a single hour she has been laid waste.

18:20
Rejoice over her, O heaven, and saints and apostles and prophets,
because God has pronounced judgment for you against her.

18:21
And a mighty angel picked up a stone like a great millstone,
and threw it into the sea saying:
With such violence Babylon the great city will be thrown down,
and will be found no more.

18:22
And the sound of harpists and musicians and flute players
and trumpeters will never be heard in you again,
and no craftsman of any craft will be found in you again,
and the sound of a mill will never be heard in you again,

18:23
and the light of a lamp will never shine in you again,
and the voice of bridegroom and bride will never be heard in you again;
because your merchants were the great ones of the earth,
because by your sorcery all the nations were deceived,

18:24
and in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints
and of all who have been slain on the earth.
