19:1
After these things I heard something like the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying:
Hallelujah;
the salvation and the glory and the power of our God,

19:2
because true and righteous are his judgments;
because he has judged the great prostitute
who was corrupting the earth with her sexual immorality,
and he has avenged the blood of his servants from her hand.

19:3
And a second time they said:
Hallelujah;
and her smoke goes up forever and ever.

19:4
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down,
and they worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying:
Amen, Hallelujah.

19:5
And a voice came from the throne saying:
Praise our God, all his servants, and those who fear him,
the small and the great.

19:6
And I heard something like the voice of a great multitude
and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty thunderpeals, saying:
Hallelujah, because the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns.

19:7
Let us rejoice and exult,
and let us give him the glory,
because the marriage of the Lamb has come,
and his bride has made herself ready,

19:8
and it was granted to her
to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and pure,
for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints.

19:9
And he says to me:
Write:
Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.
And he says to me: These
are the true words of God.

19:10
And I fell before his feet to worship him.
And he says to me:
See that you do not!
I am a fellow servant with you
and with your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus;
worship God;
for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

19:11
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse,
and the one seated on it called Faithful
and True, and in righteousness he judges and wages war.

19:12
And his eyes are a flame of fire,
and on his head are many diadems,
having a name written
that no one knows except himself,

19:13
and clothed in a garment dipped in blood,
and his name is called the Word of God.

19:14
And the armies in heaven followed him on white horses,
clothed in fine linen, white and pure.

19:15
And from his mouth comes a sharp sword,
so that with it he may strike the nations,
and he will shepherd them with an iron rod;
and he himself
treads the winepress of the wine of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.

19:16
And he has on his garment and on his thigh a name written:
King of kings and Lord of lords.

19:17
And I saw one angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice
saying to all the birds
that fly in mid-heaven:
Come, gather for the great supper of God,

19:18
so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of commanders and the flesh of the mighty and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them,
and the flesh of all people, both free and slave, both small and great.

19:19
And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered
to make war against the one seated on the horse
and against his army.

19:20
And the beast was captured,
and with it the false prophet who performed signs in its presence,
by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast
and those who worshiped its image;
the two were thrown alive
into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.

19:21
And the rest were killed by the sword of the one seated on the horse,
the sword that came from his mouth, and all the birds were gorged
with their flesh.
