17:1
And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came,
and he spoke with me saying:
Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute
who sits on many waters,

17:2
with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality,
and the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her sexual immorality.

17:3
And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness.
And I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast,
covered with blasphemous names,
having seven heads and ten horns.

17:4
And the woman was dressed in purple and scarlet,
and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls,
holding in her hand a golden cup
full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality,

17:5
and on her forehead a name was written, a mystery:
Babylon the Great, the Mother of Prostitutes and of the Abominations of the Earth.

17:6
And I saw the woman drunk
with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus.
And I marveled when I saw her with great wonder;

17:7
and the angel said to me:
Why do you marvel?
I will tell you the mystery of the woman
and of the beast that carries her,
the one with the seven heads and the ten horns;

17:8
the beast that you saw was and is not,
and is about to rise from the abyss and goes to destruction;
and those who dwell on the earth will marvel,
whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world,
when they see the beast that was and is not and is to come.

17:9
Here is the mind that has wisdom.
The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits.
And there are seven kings:

17:10
five have fallen,
one is,
the other has not yet come,
and when he comes he must remain only a little while,

17:11
and the beast that was and is not,
it is an eighth but belongs to the seven,
and it goes to destruction.

17:12
And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings,
who have not yet received a kingdom,
but they receive authority as kings for one hour together with the beast.

17:13
These are of one mind,
and they hand over their power and authority to the beast.

17:14
These will wage war against the Lamb,
and the Lamb will conquer them,
because he is Lord of lords and King of kings,
and those with him are called and chosen and faithful.

17:15
And he says to me:
The waters that you saw, where the prostitute sits,
are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.

17:16
And the ten horns that you saw and the beast,
these will hate the prostitute,
and they will make her desolate and naked,
and they will devour her flesh,
and they will burn her with fire;

17:17
for God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose,
and to be of one mind
and to give their kingdom to the beast,
until the words of God are fulfilled.

17:18
And the woman that you saw
is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth.
