14:1
And I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion,
and with him one hundred forty-four thousand having
his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads.

14:2
And I heard a sound from heaven like the sound of many waters
and like the sound of great thunder, and the sound
that I heard was like harpists playing on their harps.

14:3
And they sing what seemed a new song before the throne
and before the four living creatures and the elders;
and no one was able to learn the song
except the one hundred forty-four thousand,
the ones who had been purchased from the earth.

14:4
These are
those who have not defiled themselves with women,
for they are virgins;
these are the ones who follow the Lamb
wherever he goes; these
were purchased from among humankind as firstfruits for God and for the Lamb,

14:5
and in their mouth no lie was found;
they are blameless.

14:6
And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven,
having an eternal gospel to proclaim
to those who sit on the earth
and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people,

14:7
saying in a loud voice:
Fear God
and give him glory,
because the hour of his judgment has come,
and worship the one who made the heaven
and the earth and the sea and the springs of waters.

14:8
And another, a second angel, followed saying:
Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great,
who from the wine of the fury of her sexual immorality has made all the nations drink.

14:9
And another angel, a third, followed them saying in a loud voice:
If anyone worships the beast and its image,
and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,

14:10
he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God poured out full strength
in the cup of his anger,
and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur before the holy angels
and before the Lamb.

14:11
And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever,
and they have no rest day
or night, those who worship the beast and its image,
and whoever receives the mark of its name.

14:12
Here is the endurance of the saints,
those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.

14:13
And I heard a voice from heaven saying:
Write:
Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.
Yes, says the Spirit, so that they will rest
from their labors, for their works follow with them.

14:14
And I saw, and behold, a white cloud,
and seated on the cloud one like a son of man,
having on his head a golden crown
and in his hand a sharp sickle.

14:15
And another angel came out of the temple crying out in a loud voice
to the one seated on the cloud:
Put in your sickle
and reap,
because the hour to reap has come,
because the harvest of the earth is ripe.

14:16
And the one seated on the cloud swung his sickle
over the earth, and the earth was reaped.

14:17
And another angel came out of the temple in heaven,
having also himself a sharp sickle.

14:18
And another angel from the altar, the one who has authority over the fire,
and he called out in a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, saying:
Put in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth,
because her grapes have ripened.

14:19
And the angel swung his sickle into the earth,
and gathered the vine of the earth,
and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.

14:20
And the winepress was trodden outside the city,
and blood came out of the winepress,
up to the bridles of the horses, for a distance of one thousand six hundred stadia.
