7:1
After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth,
holding back the four winds of the earth,
so that no wind would blow on the earth or on the sea or on any tree.

7:2
And I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun,
holding the seal of the living
God, and he cried out with a loud voice to the four angels
who had been given authority to harm the earth and the sea,

7:3
saying:
Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees,
until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads.

7:4
And I heard the number of those who were sealed,
one hundred forty-four thousand, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel:

7:5
from the tribe of Judah twelve thousand sealed, from the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand,
from the tribe of Gad twelve thousand,

7:6
from the tribe of Asher twelve thousand, from the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand,
from the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand,

7:7
from the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand, from the tribe of Levi twelve thousand,
from the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand,

7:8
from the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand, from the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand,
from the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand sealed.

7:9
After these things I looked,
and there was a great multitude
that no one
could count, from every nation
and tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne
and before the Lamb,
clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands;

7:10
and they cry out with a loud voice saying:
Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb.

7:11
And all the angels stood around the throne
and the elders and the four living creatures,
and they fell on their faces before the throne
and worshiped God,

7:12
saying:
Amen!
Blessing and glory and wisdom
and thanksgiving and honor
and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen.

7:13
And one of the elders answered, saying to me:
These who are clothed in the white robes— who are they
and where did they come from?

7:14
And I said to him:
My lord, you know.
And he said to me:
These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation,
and they washed their robes
and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

7:15
For this reason they are before the throne of God,
and they serve him day and night in his temple,
and the one seated on the throne will shelter them.

7:16
They will hunger no more
nor thirst any more,
nor will the sun strike them, nor any scorching heat,

7:17
because the Lamb at the center of the throne will shepherd them,
and he will guide them to springs of living water;
and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
