8:1
And when he opened the seventh seal,
there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.

8:2
And I saw the seven angels
who stand before God,
and seven trumpets were given to them.

8:3
And another angel came
and stood at the altar
holding a golden censer,
and much incense was given to him,
so that he would offer it with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar
that is before the throne.

8:4
And the smoke of the incense with the prayers of the saints went up
from the hand of the angel before God.

8:5
And the angel took the censer,
and filled it with fire from the altar,
and threw it to the earth;
and there were peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake.

8:6
And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets
prepared themselves to sound them.

8:7
And the first sounded his trumpet;
and there came hail and fire mixed with blood, and it was thrown to the earth;
and a third of the earth was burned up,
and a third of the trees were burned up,
and all green grass was burned up.

8:8
And the second angel sounded his trumpet;
and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea;
and a third of the sea became blood,

8:9
and a third of the creatures in the sea that had life died,
and a third of the ships were destroyed.

8:10
And the third angel sounded his trumpet;
and a great star fell from heaven
burning like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers
and on the springs of waters.

8:11
And the name of the star is called Wormwood.
And a third of the waters became wormwood,
and many of the people died from the waters,
because they were made bitter.

8:12
And the fourth angel sounded his trumpet;
and a third of the sun was struck
and a third of the moon and a third of the stars,
so that a third of them would be darkened
and the day would not shine for a third of it,
and the night likewise.

8:13
And I saw, and I heard one eagle
flying in mid-heaven saying with a loud voice:
Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth
because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound.
