13:1
And I saw a beast rising out of the sea,
having ten horns and seven heads,
and on its horns ten royal crowns,
and on its heads blasphemous names.

13:2
And the beast that I saw
was like a leopard,
and its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth.
And the dragon gave it his power
and his throne and great authority.

13:3
And one of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound,
and its fatal wound was healed.
And the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast,

13:4
and they worshiped the dragon
because he had given authority to the beast,
and they worshiped the beast saying:
Who is like the beast,
and who can wage war against it?

13:5
And the beast was given a mouth uttering great things and blasphemies,
and it was given authority to act for forty-two months.

13:6
And it opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God,
to blaspheme his name and his dwelling, those who dwell in heaven.

13:7
And it was allowed to make war against the saints
and to conquer them,
and it was given authority over every tribe and people and tongue and nation.

13:8
And all who dwell on the earth will worship it,
everyone whose name has not been written in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain
from the foundation of the world.

13:9
If anyone has an ear, let him hear.

13:10
If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity he goes;
if anyone
is to be killed with the sword,
with the sword he must be killed.
Here is the endurance and the faith of the saints.

13:11
And I saw another beast rising out of the earth, and it had two horns like a lamb,
and it spoke like a dragon.

13:12
And it exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence.
And it makes
the earth and those who dwell in it worship the first beast,
whose mortal wound
had been healed.

13:13
And it performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven
to earth in the sight of people.

13:14
And it deceives those who dwell on the earth
by the signs that it was allowed to perform in the presence of the beast,
telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image for the beast
that had the wound of the sword and yet lived.

13:15
And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast,
so that the image of the beast would even speak
and cause all who would not worship the image of the beast to be killed.

13:16
and the free and the slaves,
And it causes all, the small and the great,
and the rich and the poor,
to be given a mark on their right hand or on their forehead,

13:17
so that no one can buy or sell
unless he has the mark, the name of the beast or the number of its name.

13:18
Here is wisdom:
let the one who has understanding
calculate the number of the beast,
for it is the number of a man—
it is;
and his number is six hundred sixty-six.
