4:1
What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather found according to the flesh?

4:2
For if Abraham was justified by works,
he has a ground for boasting;
but not before God,

4:3
for what does the scripture say?
Abraham believed God
and it was credited to him as righteousness.

4:4
Now to the one who works, the wage is not credited according to grace but according to what is owed;

4:5
but to the one who does not work, but believes
in the one who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness,

4:6
just as David also speaks of the blessing of the person
to whom God credits righteousness apart from works:

4:7
Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven
and whose sins have been covered,

4:8
blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will never count.

4:9
Is this blessing then upon the circumcised or also upon the uncircumcised?
For we say
that faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness.

4:10
How then was it credited?
While he was circumcised or uncircumcised?
Not while circumcised but while uncircumcised;

4:11
so that righteousness might be credited to them,
and he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith that he had while uncircumcised,
so that he might be the father of all who believe while uncircumcised,

4:12
and the father of the circumcised not only to those of the circumcision
but also to those who walk in the footsteps of the faith of our father Abraham while he was uncircumcised.

4:13
For not through the law was the promise
to Abraham or to his seed, that he would be heir of the world,
but through the righteousness of faith;

4:14
for if those of the law are heirs, faith has been emptied
and the promise has been nullified;

4:15
for the law produces wrath,
and where there is no law,
neither is there transgression.

4:16
For this reason it is by faith,
so that it might be according to grace, so that the promise might be sure
to all the seed, not to those of the law only but also to those of the faith of Abraham
(who is the father of us all,

4:17
as it is written: I have made you a father of many nations),
before the one in whom he believed,
the God who gives life to the dead
and calls the things that are not as though they are;

4:18
who against hope believed in hope
so that he might become a father of many nations according to what was spoken:
So shall your seed be;

4:19
and not weakening in faith he considered his own body
already dead, being about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Sarah's womb,

4:20
yet regarding the promise of God he did not waver in unbelief
but was strengthened in faith,
giving glory to God

4:21
and being fully convinced that what he had promised
he was also able to do.

4:22
Therefore it was credited to him as righteousness.

4:23
Now it was not written for his sake only that it was credited to him,

4:24
but also for our sake
to whom it is going to be credited,
to those who believe
in the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,

4:25
who was delivered over because of our trespasses
and was raised because of our justification.
