15:1
Now we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of the powerless,
and not to please ourselves.

15:2
Let each of us please his neighbor for what is good, for building up;

15:3
for even Christ did not please himself;
but as it is written:
The reproaches of those who reproach you
fell upon me.

15:4
For whatever was written
before was written for our instruction,
so that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope.

15:5
Now may the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to think the same thing
among yourselves according to Christ Jesus,

15:6
so that with one accord and one mouth you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:7
Therefore accept one another,
just as Christ also accepted you, to the glory of God.

15:8
For I say that Christ has become a servant of the circumcision for the sake of the truth of God,
to confirm the promises given to the fathers,

15:9
and for the nations to glorify God for his mercy;
as it is written:
Therefore I will praise you among the nations,
and I will sing to your name.

15:10
And again he
says: Rejoice, O with his people.

15:11
And again:
Praise the Lord, all you nations,
and let all the peoples praise him.

15:12
And again Isaiah says: There shall
be the root of Jesse, and the one who arises to rule over nations;
in him shall the nations hope.

15:13
Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing,
so that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.

15:14
And I myself am convinced concerning you that you yourselves
are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, being able also
to admonish one another.

15:15
But I have written to you rather boldly in part, as reminding you, because of the grace
given to me by God

15:16
to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the nations,
serving as a priest of the gospel of God,
so that the offering of the nations might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.

15:17
I have therefore my boasting in Christ Jesus in the things pertaining to God;

15:18
for I will not dare to speak of anything
that Christ has not accomplished through me for the obedience of the nations, by word and deed,

15:19
in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit,
so that from Jerusalem and around as far as Illyricum I have fully proclaimed the gospel of Christ,

15:20
and thus making it my ambition to proclaim the gospel
not where Christ has already been named,
so that I would not build on another's foundation,

15:21
but as it is written:
Those who were not told about him shall see,
and those who have not heard shall understand.

15:22
For this reason I was also hindered many times from coming to you;

15:23
but now, having no further place in these regions,
and having had for many years a longing to come to you,

15:24
whenever I go to Spain,
for I hope to see you in passing and to be sent on my way there by you
after I have first been somewhat satisfied with your company --

15:25
but now I am going to Jerusalem,
ministering to the saints.

15:26
For Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to make a certain contribution
for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.

15:27
For they were pleased to do it, and they are their debtors;
for if the nations shared in
their spiritual things,
they ought also to minister to them in material things.

15:28
When therefore I have completed this,
and have sealed this fruit to them, I will go on by way of you to Spain;

15:29
and I know that when I come to you I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.

15:30
Now I urge you through our Lord Jesus Christ and through
the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your
prayers on my behalf to God,

15:31
so that I may be delivered from the disobedient
in Judea and that my ministry
to Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,

15:32
so that I may come to you in joy through the will of God and may find rest together with you.

15:33
Now the God of peace be with you all; amen.

