1:1
Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called as an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God

1:2
which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures

1:3
concerning his Son, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh,

1:4
who was declared Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead,
Jesus Christ our Lord,

1:5
through whom we received grace and apostleship for the obedience of faith
among all the Gentiles for the sake of his name,

1:6
among whom you also are called by Jesus Christ,

1:7
To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called as saints:
Grace to you and peace
from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:8
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you,
because your faith is being proclaimed throughout the whole world.

1:9
For God is my witness,
whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of his Son,
how unceasingly I make mention of you

1:10
always in my prayers, asking that somehow now at last I may succeed
by the will of God in coming to you.

1:11
For I long to see you,
so that I may share with you some spiritual gift to strengthen you,

1:12
that is, to be mutually encouraged among you
through one another's faith, both yours and mine.

1:13
I do not want you to be unaware,
brothers,
that I often planned to come to you,
but I was prevented until now,
so that I might have some fruit among you also,
just as among the rest of the Gentiles.

1:14
I am a debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish.

1:15
So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.

1:16
For I am not ashamed of the gospel,
for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes,
to the Jew first and also to the Greek.

1:17
For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written:
"The righteous one shall live by faith."

1:18
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness
of people who suppress the truth in unrighteousness,

1:19
because what can be known about God is evident among them, for God
has made it evident to them.

1:20
For his invisible attributes have been clearly seen since the creation of the world, being understood through what has been made,
both his eternal power and divine nature, so that they are without excuse,

1:21
because although they knew God,
they did not glorify him as God or give thanks,
but they became futile in their thinking,
and their senseless hearts were darkened.

1:22
Claiming to be wise, they became fools,

1:23
and of four-footed animals and crawling creatures.
and exchanged the glory of the immortal God
for an image resembling mortal man and birds

1:24
Therefore God gave them over in the desires of their hearts
to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them,

1:25
because they exchanged the truth of God for a lie
and worshiped and served the creation rather than the Creator,
who is blessed forever. Amen.

1:26
For this reason God gave them over to dishonorable passions.
For their women exchanged the natural function
for that which is contrary to nature,

1:27
and likewise the men, abandoning the natural function of the woman,
were inflamed in their desire for one another,
men committing shameful acts with men
and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.

1:28
And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God,
God gave them over to a debased mind, to do what is not proper,

1:29
being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil,
full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice; they are gossips,

1:30
slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors
of evil, disobedient to parents,

1:31
without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful.

1:32
Although they know God's righteous decree
that those who practice such things
are worthy of death,
they not only do them
but also approve of those who practice them.

