5:1
Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,

5:2
through whom also we have gained access by faith into this grace
in which we stand,
and we boast in the hope of the glory of God.

5:3
And not only that, but we also boast in our sufferings,
knowing that suffering produces endurance,

5:4
and endurance produces proven character, and proven character produces hope.

5:5
And hope does not put us to shame,
because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts
through the Holy Spirit who was given to us.

5:6
For while we were still weak, at the right time
Christ died for the ungodly.

5:7
For one will scarcely die for a righteous person;
though perhaps for a good person
someone might even dare to die.

5:8
But God demonstrates his own love for us in that while we were still sinners,
Christ died for us.

5:9
Much more then, having now been justified
by his blood, we will be saved through him from the wrath.

5:10
For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son,
much more, having been reconciled, we will be saved by his life.

5:11
And not only that, but we also boast in God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have now received reconciliation.

5:12
Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world,
and death through sin, and so death spread to all people,
because all sinned --

5:13
for until the law, sin was in the world,
but sin is not counted
when there is no law.

5:14
Yet death reigned from Adam
to Moses, even over those who did not sin in the likeness of Adam's transgression,
who is a type of the one to come.

5:15
But the free gift is not like the transgression.
For if by the transgression of the one the many died,
much more the grace of God
and the gift by the grace of the one man Jesus Christ
abounded to the many.

5:16
And the gift is not like the result of that one man's sin;
for on the one hand the judgment arose from one transgression
resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand the free gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification.

5:17
For if by the transgression of the one, death reigned through the one,
much more those who receive the abundance of grace
and of the gift of righteousness
will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ.

5:18
to all people resulting in justification of life.
So then, as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all people, so also
through one act of righteousness there resulted

5:19
For just as through the disobedience of the one man the many were made sinners,
so also through the obedience of the one the many will be made righteous.

5:20
Now the law came in
so that the transgression would increase;
but where sin increased,
grace abounded all the more,

5:21
so that, just as sin reigned in death,
so also grace would reign through righteousness unto eternal life
through Jesus Christ our Lord.
