4:1
I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called,

4:4
There is one body, and one Spirit,
even as ye are called in one hope of your calling;

4:5
One Lord, one faith, one baptism,

4:7
But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.

4:8
Wherefore he saith,
When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive,
and gave gifts unto men.

4:9

Now that he ascended,
what is it
but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth?

4:10
He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things.

4:11
And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;

4:13
Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ:

4:14
That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive;

4:15
But speaking the truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ:

4:17
This I say therefore,
and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk
not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind,

4:20
But ye have not so learned Christ;

4:21
If so be that ye have heard him, and have been taught by him,
as the truth is in Jesus:

4:22
That ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts;

4:25
Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbour:
for we are members one of another.

4:26
Be ye angry,
and sin not:
let not the sun go down upon your wrath:

4:27
Neither give place to the devil.

4:28
Let him that stole steal no more:
but rather let him labour, working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth.

4:29
Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth,
but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers.

4:30
And grieve not the holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption.

4:31
Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil speaking, be put away from you, with all malice:

4:32
And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you.

