12:1
And a great sign appeared in heaven,
a woman clothed with the sun,
and the moon beneath her feet,
and on her head a crown of twelve stars,

12:2
and she was pregnant;
and she cries out in labor pains and the agony of giving birth.

12:3
And another sign appeared in heaven,
and there was a great fiery red dragon,
having seven heads and ten horns
and on his heads seven royal crowns,

12:4
and his tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven,
and hurled them to the earth.
And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth,
so that when she bore her child he might devour it.

12:5
And she bore a son, a male child,
who is destined to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod;
and her child was snatched up to God and to his throne.

12:6
And the woman fled into the wilderness,
where she has a place prepared by God,
so that she would be nourished there for one thousand two hundred sixty days.

12:7
And war broke out in heaven,
Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon.
And the dragon fought back,
and his angels with him,

12:8
but he was not strong enough,
nor was a place found for them any longer in heaven.

12:9
And the great dragon was thrown down, the ancient serpent,
the one called the Devil and Satan
who deceives the whole world—
he was thrown to the earth,
and his angels were thrown down with him.

12:10
And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying:
Now have come the salvation and the power
and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ,
because the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down,
the one who accuses them before our God day and night.

12:11
And they conquered him by the blood of the Lamb
and by the word of their testimony,
and they did not love their lives, even unto death;

12:12
therefore rejoice, O heavens and you who
dwell in them! But woe to the
earth and the sea, because the devil
has come down to you, having great
fury, knowing that his time is short.

12:13
And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown to the earth,
he pursued the woman
who had given birth to the male child.

12:14
And the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle,
so that she might fly into the wilderness to her place,
where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time, away from the face of the serpent.

12:15
And the serpent spewed water like a river out of his mouth after the woman,
to sweep her away with the flood.

12:16
And the earth helped the woman,
and the earth opened its mouth
and swallowed the river
that the dragon poured from his mouth;

12:17
and the dragon was enraged at the woman,
and went off to make war against the rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God
and hold to the testimony of Jesus;

12:18
and he stood on the sand of the sea.
