2:1
Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas,
taking Titus along as well.

2:2
I went up because of a revelation;
and I set before them the gospel
that I preach among the Gentiles,
but privately before those of repute — lest somehow I was running or had run in vain.

2:3
But not even Titus who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.

2:4
Now this matter arose because of the false brothers secretly brought in,
who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus,
so that they might enslave us —

2:5
to whom we did not yield in submission even for an hour,
so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you.

2:6
And from those who were reputed to be something —
whatever they once were
makes no difference to me;
God shows no partiality — for those of repute added nothing to me.

2:7
On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised,
just as Peter had been to the circumcised —

2:8
for the one who worked through Peter for his apostleship to the circumcised also worked
through me for the Gentiles —

2:9
and when they recognized the grace that had been given
to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars,
gave the right hand of fellowship to me
and Barnabas, that
we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised.

2:10
They asked only that
we remember the
poor, the very thing I was eager to do.

2:11
But when Cephas came to Antioch,
I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned.

2:12
For before certain men came from James,
he used to eat with the Gentiles;
but when they came, he began to draw back
and separate himself,
fearing those of the circumcision.

2:13
And the rest of the Jews joined him in his hypocrisy,
so that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy.

2:14
But when I saw that they were not walking uprightly according to the truth of the gospel,
I said to Cephas in the presence of all:
"If you, being a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew,
how can you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews?"

2:15
We who are Jews by birth
and not sinners from among the Gentiles —

2:16
yet knowing that a person is not justified by works of the
law but through faith in Jesus Christ, even
we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that
we might be justified by faith in
Christ and not by works of the
law, because by works of the law no flesh will be justified.

2:17
But if, in seeking to be justified in Christ,
we ourselves were also found to be sinners,
is Christ then a minister of sin?
Absolutely not!

2:18
For if the things I tore down,
these I build up again,
I prove myself a transgressor.

2:19
For through the law I died to the law,
so that I might live to God.
I have been crucified with Christ;

2:20
and it is no longer I who live,
but Christ lives in me;
and the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith —
faith in the Son of God who loved me
and gave himself up for me.

2:21
I do not set aside the grace of God;
for if righteousness comes through the law,
then Christ died for nothing.

