1:1
Paul, an apostle -- not from men nor through man,
but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead --


1:2
and all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:


1:3
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,


1:4
who gave himself for our sins,
to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,


1:5
to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.


1:6
I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel --


1:7
not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you
and want to distort the gospel of Christ.


1:8
But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel
contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.


1:9
As we have said before, and now I say again:
if anyone is preaching to you a gospel
contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed.


1:10
For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God?
Or am I trying to please man?
If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ.


1:11
For I would have you know, brothers,
that the gospel that was preached by me is not of human origin.


1:12
For I did not receive it from any man,
nor was I taught it, but it came through a revelation of Jesus Christ.


1:13
For you have heard of my former conduct in Judaism,
how I persecuted the church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it.


1:14
And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people,
being far more zealous for the traditions of my fathers.


1:15
But when he who had set me apart before I was born
and who called me by his grace


1:16
was pleased to reveal his Son in me,
in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles,
I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,


1:17
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me,
but I went away into Arabia,
and returned again to Damascus.


1:18
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas,
and remained with him fifteen days.


1:19
But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother.


1:20
Now in what I am writing to you,
behold, before God, I do not lie.


1:21
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.


1:22
And I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea that are in Christ.


1:23
They only were hearing it said: "He who used to persecute us
is now preaching the faith
that he once tried to destroy,"


1:24
and they glorified God because of me.
