1:1
Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother,
to Philemon our beloved fellow worker,


1:2
and to Apphia our sister, and to Archippus our fellow soldier,
and to the church in your house:


1:3
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.


1:4
I thank my God always,
making mention of you in my prayers,


1:5
because I hear of your love and the faith
that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints,


1:6
that the sharing of your faith may become effective in the knowledge of every good thing that is in us for Christ.


1:7
For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love,
because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you,
brother.


1:8
Therefore, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required,


1:9
for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you --
being as I am, Paul, an old man, and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus --


1:10
I appeal to you for my child,
Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment,


1:11
who was formerly useless to you, but now is indeed useful to you and to me.


1:12
I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart.


1:13
I would have been glad to keep him with me,
in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel,


1:14
but I preferred to do nothing without your consent,
in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own free will.


1:15
For this perhaps is why he was separated from you for a while,
so that you might have him back forever,


1:16
no longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother -- especially
to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.


1:17
So if you consider me your partner,
receive him as you would receive me.


1:18
If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything,
charge that to my account.


1:19
I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it --
not to mention that you owe me even your own self.


1:20
Yes, brother,
I want some benefit from you in the Lord.
Refresh my heart in Christ.


1:21
Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing
that you will do even more than I say.


1:22
At the same time, prepare a guest room for me,
for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.


1:23
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends you greetings,


1:24
and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.


1:25
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
