2:1
For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea,
and for all who have not seen me face to face,

2:2
that their hearts may be encouraged,
being knit together in love, and unto all the riches of full assurance of understanding, unto the knowledge of God's mystery, Christ,

2:3
in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

2:4
I say this
so that no one may delude you with plausible arguments.

2:5
For though I am absent in body,
yet I am with you in spirit,
rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ.

2:6
Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord,
so walk in him,

2:7
rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught,
abounding in thanksgiving.

2:8
See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental forces of the world and not according to Christ.

2:9
For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,

2:10
and you have been filled in him,
who is the head of all rule and authority.

2:11
In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by the putting off of the body of flesh, in the circumcision of Christ,

2:12
having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God,
who raised him from the dead.

2:13
And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him,
having forgiven us all our trespasses,

2:14
by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands,
which was hostile to us;
he set it aside, nailing it to the cross.

2:15
He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame,
triumphing over them in him.

2:16
Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food, or drink, or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath.

2:17
These are a shadow of the things to come,
but the substance belongs to Christ.

2:18
Let no one disqualify you, insisting
on asceticism and the worship of angels, going on about visions,
puffed up without reason by his fleshly mind,

2:19
and not holding fast to the Head,
from whom the whole body through the joints
and ligaments, nourished and knit together, grows with a growth that is from God.

2:20
If you have died with Christ to the elemental forces of the world,
why, as though still living in the world, do you submit to regulations —

2:21
"Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch" —

2:22
all of which are destined to perish with use, according to human commandments and teachings?

2:23
These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in self-imposed worship and false humility and severe treatment of the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.
