1:1
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus,
by the will of God,
according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus,

1:2
to Timothy, my beloved child:
Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

1:3
I thank God,
whom I serve as did my ancestors
with a clear conscience,
as I remember you constantly
in my prayers,
night and day,

1:4
longing to see you, remembering your tears,
that I may be filled with joy,

1:5
I am reminded of your sincere faith —
a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice,
and I am sure, dwells in you as well.

1:6
For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God,
which is in you through the laying on of my hands,

1:7
for God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-discipline.

1:8
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner,
but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God,

1:9
who saved us
and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose
and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,

1:10
and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ,
who abolished death
and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,

1:11
for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher.

1:12
which is why I suffer as I do.
But I am not ashamed,
for I know whom I have believed,
and I am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted to him until that day.

1:13
Follow the pattern of the sound words
that you have heard from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.

1:14
Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us.

1:15
You are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me,
among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.

1:16
May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus,
for he often refreshed me
and was not ashamed of my chains.

1:17
On the contrary, when he arrived in Rome he searched for me earnestly and found me —

1:18
may the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day —
and how much he served me at Ephesus
you know very well.

