2:1
For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit to you.

2:2
For if I cause you grief,
then who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have grieved?

2:3
And I wrote this very thing
so that when I came I would not have grief from those who should have made
me rejoice, having confidence in all of you that my joy would be the joy of you all.

2:4
For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you grief,
but to let you know the abundant love
that I have for you.

2:5
Now if anyone has caused grief,
he has not grieved me, but in some measure --
not to put it too severely -- all of you.

2:6
For such a person, this punishment by the majority is sufficient.

2:7
So you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him,
lest he be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.

2:8
So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.

2:9
For this is why I wrote,
that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything.

2:10
Anyone whom you forgive,
I also forgive.
Indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven
anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ,

2:11
so that we would not be outwitted by Satan,
for we are not ignorant of his designs.

2:12
When I came to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ,
even though a door was opened for me in the Lord,

2:13
my spirit had no rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave
of them and went on to Macedonia.

2:14
But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ
and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.

2:15
For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved
and among those who are perishing,

2:16
to one a fragrance from death to death,
to the other a fragrance from life to life.
Who is sufficient for these things?

2:17
For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, but as commissioned by God, in the sight of God
we speak in Christ.

