8:1
We make known to you,
brothers,
the grace of God that has been given
among the churches of Macedonia,

8:2
that in a great ordeal of affliction,
their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed
into the riches of their generosity.

8:3
For according to their ability, I testify, and beyond their ability, of their own accord,

8:4
with much urging they begged us
for the grace and the fellowship of ministry to the saints --

8:5
and not as we had hoped,
but they gave themselves first to the Lord and to us through the will of God,

8:6
so that we urged Titus
that just as he had previously begun, so he would also complete among you this act of grace.

8:7
But just as you abound in everything -- in faith and speech and knowledge and all earnestness,
and in the love from us that is in you --
see that you abound in this grace also.

8:8
I do not say this as a command,
but through the earnestness of others I am testing the genuineness of your love.

8:9
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that for your sake he became poor
though he was rich, so that you through his poverty might become rich.

8:10
And I give my judgment in this matter:
for this is to your advantage,
you who began not only to do
but also to desire
a year ago.

8:11
Now also complete the doing of it,
so that just as there was the readiness to desire it, so also
there may be the completion of it from what you have.

8:12
For if the readiness is present,
it is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have.

8:13
For it is not that others may have relief while you are burdened, but as a matter of equality --

8:14
at the present time your abundance may supply their need,
so that their abundance also may supply your need,
that there may be equality.

8:15
As it is written:
"The one who gathered much did not have too much,
and the one who gathered little did not have too little."

8:16
But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness for you into the heart of Titus,

8:17
for he welcomed our appeal on the one hand,
and being even more earnest, he went out to you of his own accord.

8:18
And we have sent with him the brother
whose praise in the gospel is throughout all the churches --

8:19
and not only that, but he was also appointed by the churches
as our traveling companion with this grace
that is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord himself and our eagerness --

8:20
taking precaution that no one should discredit us in this generous gift that is being administered by us,

8:21
for we have regard for what is honorable not only before the Lord but also before people.

8:22
And we have sent with them our brother
whom we have often tested in many things and found earnest,
but now much more earnest because of great confidence in you.

8:23
As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for you;
as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.

8:24
Therefore show to them the proof of your love and of our boasting on your behalf,
before the face of the churches.

