14:1
And I looked and behold the Lamb standing upon the Mount Zion
and with Him number one hundred forty four thousand
having the name of Him and the name of the Father of Him written on the foreheads of them.

14:2
And I heard a voice out of the heaven as [the] sound of waters many
and as [the] sound of thunder loud,
And the voice that I heard [was] like that of harpists harping with the harps of them.

14:3
And they are singing as a song new before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders,
And no [one] was able to learn the song
only except the one hundred forty four thousand
who redeemed from the earth.

14:4
These are they who with women not was defiled,
pure for they are; are are
those following after the Lamb wherever maybe He may go; These
by Jesus were redeemed out from the men [as] firstfruits the to God and to the Lamb;

14:5
And in the mouth of them not was found a lie,
blameless for they are

14:6
And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven
having [the] glad tidings everlasting to evangelise
upon those residing on the earth and to every nation
and tribe
and tongue
and people

14:7
saying in a voice loud;
do fear the God
and do give to Him glory,
because has come the hour of the judgment of Him,
And do worship the [One] him [who]
having made the heaven
and the earth
and the
sea and springs of waters.

14:8
And another angel a second followed saying;
Fallen Fallen is Babylon the city
the who who of the wine the of wrath for the immorality of her she has given to drink all the Gentiles.

14:9
And another angel a third followed after them saying in a voice loud;
If anyone worships the beast and the image of it
and receives a mark on the forehead of him or upon the hand of him,

14:10
also he himself will drink of the wine of the anger the of God
which mixed undiluted in the cup of the wrath of Him
and he will be tormented in fire and brimstone before of the angels holy and before the Lamb.

14:11
And the smoke of the torment of them to ages of ages goes up,
and not have rest by day and night
those worshiping the beast and the image of it
and if anyone receives the mark of the name of it.

14:12
Here the endurance of the saints is
here those keeping the commandments the of God and the faith of Jesus.

14:13
And I heard a voice out of the heaven saying
to me:
do write; Blessed [are] the dead the in the Lord dying from now.
Yes, says the Spirit,
so that they will rest from the labors of them,
the for the works of them follow with them.

14:14
And I looked and behold a cloud white,
and upon the cloud is sitting [One] like [the] Son of Man,
having on the head of Him a crown golden and in the hand of Him a sickle sharp.

14:15
And another angel came out of the temple
crying in a voice loud to the [One] sitting on the cloud;
do put forth the sickle of You and do reap,
because has come to you the hour of the
to reap, because has ripened the harvest of the earth.

14:16
And swung the [One] sitting upon the cloud the sickle of Him upon the earth,
and was harvested the earth.

14:17
And another angel came out of the temple the in the heaven
having also he himself a sickle sharp.

14:18
And another angel came out of the altar who is having authority over the fire
and he called in a voice loud to the [one] having the sickle the sharp saying;
do put forth your the sickle the sharp
and do gather the clusters from the vine of the earth,
because fully ripened the grapes of it.

14:19
And put forth the angel the sickle of him to the earth
and gathered the vine of the earth
and cast [them] into the winepress of the wrath the of God the great.

14:20
And was trodden the winepress outside the city,
and flowed blood out of the winepress as high as the bridles of the horses to the distance of stadia one thousand six hundred.

