11:1
And was given to me a measuring rod like as a staff saying;
do rise and do measure the temple the of God
and the altar, and those worshiping in it.

11:2
And the courtyard the outside the temple do leave outside,
and not it may measure,
because it has been given [up] to the nations;
and the city the holy they will trample upon months forty and

11:3
And I will grant to the two witnesses of mine,
and they will prophesy days a thousand two hundred sixty
having clothed themselves in sackcloth.

11:4
These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands
the before the Lord of the earth standing.

11:5
And if anyone them should desire to harm,
fire goes out of the mouth of them
and devours the enemies of them;
And if anyone shall desire them to harm,
thus it is necessary for him to be killed.

11:6
These have the power to shut the sky
so that not rain may fall in the days of the prophecy of them,
and power they have over the waters to turn them into blood
and to strike the earth with every plague as often as if they shall desire.

11:7
And when they may have completed the testimony of them,
the beast which is coming up out of the abyss will make with them war
and he will overcome them
and he will kill them.

11:8
And the body of them [will be] upon the street of the city the great,
which is called figuratively Sodom and Egypt,
where also the Lord of them was crucified.

11:9
And gaze [those] of the peoples and tribes and tongues
and nations [on] the body of them
days three and a half,
and the bodies of them not they allow to be put into a tomb.

11:10
And those dwelling on the earth does rejoice over them and does make merry
and gifts will send to one another,
because these the two prophets tormented those dwelling upon the earth.

11:11
And after the three days and a half [the] spirit of life from the God entered in them,
and they stood upon the feet of them,
and fear great fell upon those beholding them.

11:12
And they heard a voice great out of the heaven saying to them;
do come up here.
And they went up to the heaven in the cloud,
and beheld them the enemies of them.

11:13
And in that [very] the hour there was an earthquake great,
and the a tenth of the city fell,
and were killed in the earthquake names of men thousand seven.
And the rest terrified became
and they gave glory to the God the of heaven.

11:14
The woe the second has passed;
Behold the woe the third is coming quickly.

11:15
And the seventh angel sounded [his] trumpet,
and there were voices great in the heaven saying:
Has become the kingdom of the world [that] of the Lord of us and of the Christ of Him,
and He will reign to the ages of the ages.

11:16
And the twenty and four
elders the before the throne [of] God God who sitting on the thrones of them
fell upon the faces of them
and worshiped the God

11:17
saying:
We give thanks to You, Lord
the God the Almighty,
who is being and who was
and who is coming for You have taken the power of You the

11:18
And the nations were enraged,
and came the wrath of You
and the time for the dead to be judged
and to give the reward to the servants of You to the prophets
and to the saints and to those fearing the name of You, [to] the small and [to] the great,
and to destroy those destroying the earth.

11:19
And was opened the temple the of God the in the heaven,
and appeared the ark of the covenant of Him in the temple of Him,
And there were flashes of lightning
and voices
and thunders
and an earthquake
and hail great.

