16:1
And I heard [a] loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels;
do go and do pour out the seven bowls of the wrath the of God into the earth.

16:2
And departed the first
and poured out the bowl of him into the earth,
and came a sore harm and grievous upon the men
those having the mark of the beast and those worshiping the image of it.

16:3
And the second angel poured out the bowl of him into the sea,
and it became blood as of [one] dead,
and every soul living died that was in the sea.

16:4
And the third angel poured out the bowl of him into the rivers and into the springs of the waters,
and they became blood.

16:5
And I heard the angel of the waters saying:
Righteous O Lord are, you who [are] being and who was being and O holy One,
because these things You have judged,

16:6
because [the] blood of saints and of prophets they have poured out,
and blood to them You have given to drink;
worthy for

16:7
And I heard other the the altar saying:
Yes Lord O God the Almighty, true and righteous [are] the judgments of You.

16:8
And the fourth angel poured out the bowl of him upon the sun,
and there was given to it to scorch the men with fire.

16:9
And were scorched the men with heat great
and they denigrated the the the name the of God who is having the authority over the plagues these
and not did they repent to give Him glory.

16:10
And the fifth angel poured out the bowl of him upon the throne of the beast,
and became the kingdom of it darkened,
and they were gnawing the tongues of them for the distress

16:11
and they blasphemed the God the of heaven on account of the distresses of them and on account of the sores of them
and not they did repent of the works of them.

16:12
And the sixth angel poured out the bowl of him upon the river the great the Euphrates,
and was dried up the water of it
so that may be prepared the way of the kings the from the rising of the sun.

16:13
And I saw [coming]
out of the mouth of the dragon
and out of the mouth of the beast
and out of the mouth of the false prophet
spirits three unclean as frogs.

16:14
they are for spirits of demons performing signs
which go forth to the kings of the earth and
of the inhabited [world] whole to gather together them unto the battle of the day that [one] the great [day] the of God

16:15
Behold I am coming like a thief.
Blessed [is] the [one] watching and keeping the garments of him,
so that not naked he may walk and they may see the shame of him.

16:16
And he gathered together them unto the place which is being called in Hebrew Armageddon.

16:17
And the seventh angel poured out the bowl of him upon the air,
and came out a voice loud from the temple of the from from the throne saying;
It has been done!

16:18
And there were flashes of lightning
and voices
and thunders
and an earthquake there was great
such as not had there been since when the man was upon the earth,
so great [was the] earthquake so mighty.

16:19
And was [split] the city the great into three parts,
and the cities of the nations fell.
and Babylon the great was remembered before the God
to give to her the cup of the wine of the fury the wrath of Him.

16:20
And every island fled,
and mountains not were to be found.

16:21
And a hail great about a talent weight comes down out of the heaven upon the men.
And blasphemed the men the God on account of the plague of the hail,
for severe is the plague of it exceedingly.

