13:1
And I saw out of the sea a beast rising,
having horns ten and heads seven and on the horns of it ten royal crowns and upon the heads of it names of blasphemy.

13:2
And the beast that I saw was like as a leopard
and the feet of it like a bear’s
and the mouth of it like [the] mouth of a lion.
And gave to it the dragon the power of him
and the throne of him and authority great.

13:3
And I saw one of the heads of it [was] as slain to death,
And the wound the of death of it was healed,
and marveled in all [on] the earth after the beast.

13:4
And they worshiped the dragon
that gave the authority to the beast
and they worshiped the beast saying;
Who [is] like as the beast
And who is able to make war against it?

13:5
And was given to it a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies
and was given to it authority war to act months forty and

13:6
And it opened the mouth of it unto blasphemies against the God
to blaspheme the name of Him and the tabernacle of Him,
and those in the heaven dwelling.

13:7
And there was given to it to make war with the saints and to overcome them
And was given to it authority over every tribe and people and tongue and nation.

13:8
And will worship it all those dwelling on the earth,
each of whom not have been written the name of him in the book the of life
of the Lamb which slain from [the] founding of [the] world.

13:9
If anyone has an ear, he should hear.

13:10
If anyone into captivity gathers into captivity he goes,
If anyone with [the] sword is to be killed, it is necessary for him by [the] sword [is] to be killed;
Here is the endurance and the faith of the saints.

13:11
And I saw another beast rising out of the earth,
and it had horns two like as a lamb
and it was speaking like a dragon.

13:12
And the authority of the first beast all it exercises on behalf of it
and makes the earth and those in it dwelling
that they will worship the beast the first,
of whom was healed the wound the fatal of it.

13:13
And it works signs great
so that even fire it may cause out of the heaven to come down to the earth in the presence the of men.

13:14
And it deceives those mine dwelling dwelling on the earth
through the signs that were given to it to perform before the beast
telling to those dwelling on the earth to make an image to the beast
that has the wound from of the sword and has lived.

13:15
And there was given to it to give breath to the image of the beast
so that also may speak the image of the beast,
and may cause that as many as might not shall worship the image of the beast shall be killed.

13:16
And it causes all the small and the great
and the rich and the poor
and the free and the servants,
that it may give to them a mark on the hand of them the right or on the forehead of them,

13:17
and that no one may be able to buy or to sell
only except the [one] having the mark — or the name of the beast or the number of the name of it.

13:18
Here the wisdom is.
The [one] having the understanding he should count the number of the beast,
number for a man’s it is,
and the number of it is six hundred sixty

