6:1
And I watched when opened the Lamb one of the seven seals
and I heard one of the four living creatures saying like a voice of thunder; Come

6:2
And and and behold a horse and and the [one] sitting on
it having a bow. and was given
to him a crown,
and he went forth overcoming and
that he may conquer.

6:3
And when He opened the seal the second
I heard the second living creature saying; do come

6:4
And went forth another horse bright red.
and to the [one] sitting on it was granted to him to take the peace from the earth,
and that one another they will slay.
and was given to him a sword great.

6:5
And when He opened the seal the third
I heard the third living creature saying;
do come
and do heed. I saw I saw
and behold a horse black
and the [one] sitting on it
having a pair of scales in the hand of him.

6:6
And I heard [something] like a voice in [the] midst of the four living creatures saying;
A choenix of wheat for a denarius
and three choenixes of barley for a denarius,
and the oil and the wine not you may injure.

6:7
And when He opened the seal the fourth,
I heard [the] voice of the fourth living creature saying; Come

6:8
And I looked and behold a horse pale
and the [one] sitting on it [the] name of him [was] the Death.
and the Hades was following with him.
and was given to them authority over the fourth of the earth
to kill with sword
and with famine
and with plague
and by the beasts of the earth.

6:9
And when He opened the fifth seal,
I saw under the altar the souls of those slain because of the word the of God
and because of the testimony of the which which they were upholding.

6:10
And they were crying in a voice loud saying;
Until when, O Lord the holy and the true, not do You judge
and you avenge the blood of us from those dwelling upon the earth?

6:11
And were given to them each a robe white
and it was said to them
that they will rest yet a time little until when may be fulfilled also the fellow servants of them
and the brothers of them, and those being about to be killed as also [had been] they.

6:12
And I saw when He opened the seal the sixth,
and behold an earthquake great there was,
and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair,
and the moon whole became like blood,

6:13
and the stars the of heaven fell
to the earth as a fig tree casts the unripe figs of it
by a wind great being shaken,

6:14
And the heaven departed like a scroll being rolled up,
and every mountain and island out of the places of them were moved,

6:15
And the kings of the earth and the great ones
and the commanders and the rich and the powerful
and every slave and everyone free hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains

6:16
And they say to the mountains and to the rocks;
do fall on us
and do hide us from [the] face of the [One] sitting on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb,

6:17
because has come the day the great of the wrath of them,
and who is able to stand?

