17:1
And came one of the seven angels those having the seven bowls
and spoke with me saying
to me: Come here, I will show you the punishment of the prostitute the great
who is sitting upon the waters many, many,

17:2
with whom committed sexual immorality the kings of the earth,
and were made drunk those that dwelling on the earth with the wine of the sexual immorality of her.

17:3
and he carried away me into a wilderness in [the] Spirit.
and I saw a woman sitting upon a beast scarlet
being full of the names
of blasphemy, having heads seven and horns ten.

17:4
And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet
and adorned with gold and with stone precious and with pearls,
holding a cup golden in the hand of her
being full of abominations and the unclean [things] of the sexual immorality of her.

17:5
And upon the forehead of her a name written, a mystery:
Babylon the Great, the mother of the prostitutes and of the abominations of the earth.

17:6
And I saw the woman being drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus,
And I marveled having seen her with wonder great.

17:7
And said to me the angel;
Because of why did you marvel?
I myself will tell you the mystery of the woman
and of the beast who is carrying her
who is having the seven heads and the ten horns.

17:8
The beast that you saw was and not is
and is about to come up out of the abyss
and into destruction go.
and will be astonished those dwelling on the earth,
whose not has been written the name in the book the of life from [the] foundation of [the] world,
seeing the beast that was and not is and yet it will exist.

17:9
Here [is] the mind which is having wisdom.
The seven heads seven mountains are where the woman sits on them.


17:10
The five are fallen,
and the one is,
the other not yet has come;
and when he may have come, a little while him it behooves to remain.

17:11
And the beast which was and not is,
also himself an eighth is and of the seven is
and into destruction goes.

17:12
And the ten horns which you saw, ten kings are,
who a kingdom not yet have received
but authority as kings one hour receive along with the beast.

17:13
These one mind have
and the power and the authority of them to the beast they give up.

17:14
These with the Lamb war will make,
and the Lamb will overcome them,
because Lord of lords He is and King of kings,
and those with Him [are] called and chosen and faithful.

17:15
And he says to me;
The waters that you saw, where the prostitute sits,
peoples and multitudes are and nations and tongues.

17:16
And the ten horns that you saw and the beast,
these will hate the prostitute
and desolated they will make her and naked
they will make and and the flesh of her they will eat
and her they will burn with fire.

17:17
the For God has put into the hearts of them to do the purpose of Him
and to do one purpose
and to give the kingdom of them to the beast
until they will be completed the words the of God.

17:18
And the woman whom you saw
is the city the great which is having kingship over the kings of the earth.

