18:1
and After these things I saw another angel descending out of the heaven,
having authority great,
and the earth was illuminated from the glory of him.

18:2
And he cried out in a mighty voice loud
saying: Fallen Fallen is Babylon the great
And she has become a habitation of demons
and a prison of every spirit unclean
and a prison of every bird unclean
and a prison of every creature unclean and hated,

18:3
For of the wine of the wrath of the sexual immorality of her they have drunk all the nations,
and the kings of the earth with her committed sexual immorality,
and the merchants of the earth through the power of the sensuality of her were enriched.

18:4
And I heard another voice from the heaven saying:
do come you who [are] people of mine from her,
so that not you may have fellowship in the sins of her,
and of the plagues of her so that not you may receive;

18:5
For they were heaped in her the sins as high as the heaven,
and has remembered the God the iniquities of her.

18:6
do give back to her as also she has rendered
to you and do pay back double to her the twofold according to the works of her.
In the cup which she has mixed, do mix to her double.

18:7
So much as she has glorified herself and lived in luxury,
so much do give to her torment and misery,
because in the heart of herself she says
that I sit [as] a queen
and a widow never I am
and mourning certainly not shall I see.

18:8
Because of this in one day will come the plagues of her,
death and misery and famine,
and with fire she will be burned up,
because mighty [is the] Lord the God the [One] having judged her.

18:9
And they will weep [for] her and they will wail for her the kings of the earth
the [ones who] with her having committed sexual immorality and having lived luxuriously,
when they may see the smoke of the burning of her

18:10
from afar standing because of the fear of the torment of her saying:
Woe woe you who [are] the city the great Babylon the city the strong!
For in one hour has come the judgment of you.

18:11
And the merchants of the earth weep and they mourn for her,
because the cargo of them no [one] buys no longer

18:12
cargo of gold
and of silver
and of stone precious
and of pearls
and of fine linen [things]
and of purple cloth
and of silk
and of scarlet
and all wood citron and every article of ivory
and every article of wood most precious and of bronze and of iron and of marble

18:13
and cinnamon
and spice
and incense
and myrrh
and frankincense
and wine
and oil
and finest flour
and wheat
and cattle
and sheep
and of horses
and of chariots
and of slaves
and souls of men.

18:14
And the ripe fruit of you of the desire of the soul are departed from you,
and all the sumptuous things and the splendid things were destroyed from you,
and no longer certainly not them they will find.

18:15
The merchants of these things which having been enriched from her from afar will stand because of the fear of the torment of her
weeping and mourning,

18:16
and
saying: Woe woe you who [are] the city the great,
which having been clothed with fine linen and purple and scarlet
and adorned with gold [things] and with stone precious and with pearl!

18:17
Since in one hour has been brought to desolation the so great wealth.
And every shipmaster
and every [one] who on a place of the
sailing the
multitudes and sailors as many as as many as the sea trade by
at a distance stood

18:18
and were crying out seeing the smoke of the burning of her saying;
What [is] like as the city the great?

18:19
And they cast dust upon the heads of them
and they were crying out weeping and mourning and
saying: Woe woe the city the great,
in which were enriched all those having the ships in the sea through the wealth of her!
Since in one hour she has been desolated.

18:20
do rejoice over her, O heaven
and you saints and you apostles and you prophets,
because did judge the God the judgment for you against her.

18:21
And took up one angel a mighty stone like a millstone great
and cast [it] into the sea saying:
Thus with violence will be cast down Babylon the great city
and certainly not may be found any longer.

18:22
And sound of harpists
and musicians
and flute players
and trumpeters
certainly not may be heard in you any longer,
And any craftsmen of any craft certainly not may be found in you any longer,
and [the] sound of a millstone certainly not may be heard in you any longer,

18:23
And [the] light of lamp certainly not may shine in you any longer,
and [the] voice of a bridegroom and a bride certainly not may be heard in you any longer,
for the merchants of you were the great ones of the earth,
because by the sorcery of you were deceived all the nations.

18:24
And in her [the] blood of prophets and of saints was found and of all those slain on the earth.

