20:1
And I saw an angel descending out of the heaven
holding the key of the Abyss and a chain great in the hand of him.

20:2
And he seized the dragon, the serpent the ancient,
who is [the] devil and the Satan;
who is deceiving the world all

20:3
And he cast him into the Abyss
and shut
him and sealed [it] over him,
so that not he may deceive any longer the nations
until may be completed the thousand years.
and After these things it is necessary for to be released him for a little time.

20:4
And I saw thrones,
and they sat upon them
and judgment was given to them,
and the souls of those beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the word the of God,
and those who not did worship the beast nor the image of him
and not did take the mark upon the forehead of them and upon the hand of them,
And they lived
and they reigned with the Christ the thousand years.

20:5
now The rest of the dead not lived until may have been completed the thousand years.
This [is] the resurrection the first.

20:6
Blessed and holy [is] the [one] having a part in the resurrection the first!
Over these the second death not has power,
but they will be priests the of God and the of Christ
and will reign with Him the a thousand

20:7
And when may have been completed the thousand years,
will be released the Satan out of the prison of him

20:8
and will go out to deceive the nations the in the four corners of the earth,
the Gog and the
Magog, to gather together them unto the war,
of whom the number [is] of them like the sand of the sea.

20:9
And they marched up over the breadth of the earth
and encircled the camp of the saints and the city which beloved.
But came down fire from the God
out of the heaven

20:10
And the devil who is deceiving them he was cast into the lake the of fire and of sulfur
where [are] also the beast and the false prophet,
and they will be tormented day and night to the ages of the ages.

20:11
And I saw a throne great white and the [One] sitting on it,
whose from the face fled the earth and the heaven
and place not was found for them.

20:12
And I saw the dead, the great and the small,
standing before the throne,
and books were opened.
And another book was opened which is the [one] of life.
And were judged the dead out of the [things] written in the books according to the deeds of them.

20:13
And gave up the sea the dead who were in her,
and the Death and the Hades gave up the dead who were in them,
and they were judged each [of them] according to the works of them.

20:14
And the Death and the Hades were cast into the lake the of fire;
This the death the second is the lake the of fire.

20:15
And if anyone not was found in the book the of life written,
he was cast into the lake the of fire.

