12:1
And a sign great appeared in the heaven:
a woman having been clothed with the sun,
and the moon under the feet of her
and on the head of her a crown of stars twelve,

12:2
and in womb having,
And she cries out being in travail and being in pain to bring forth.

12:3
And was seen another sign in the heaven,
and behold a dragon great red
having heads seven and horns ten, and upon the heads of him seven royal crowns,

12:4
And the tail of him drags the a third of the stars the of heaven
and he cast them to the earth.
and the dragon has stood before the woman who is being about to bring forth,
so that when she may bring forth the child of her he may devour.

12:5
And she brought forth a son male,
who is about to rule all the nations with a rod of iron.
and was caught up the child of her to the God and to the throne of Him.

12:6
And the woman fled into the wilderness,
where she has there a place prepared by the God,
so that there they may feed her days one thousand two hundred sixty.

12:7
And there was war in the heaven:
the Michael and the angels of him the to war against the dragon.
and the dragon warred [back]
and the angels of him

12:8
And not he had [enough] strength,
nor a place was found for them any longer in the heaven.

12:9
And was thrown [out] the dragon the great, the serpent the ancient,
who is called [the] devil and the Satan
who is deceiving the inhabited [world] whole,
He was thrown down to the earth,
and the angels of him with him were thrown down.

12:10
And I heard a voice great in the heaven saying:
Now have come the salvation
and the power
and the kingdom of the God of us,
and the authority of the Christ of Him,
because has been cast down the accuser of the brothers of us
who is accusing them before the God of us day and night.

12:11
And they themselves overcame him through the blood of the Lamb and through the word of the testimony of them
and not they have loved the life of them unto death.

12:12
Because of this do rejoice
O heavens and you who [are] in them dwelling!
Woe to those the the land
and the sea,
because has come down the devil to you
having fury great knowing that a short time he has.

12:13
And when saw the dragon that he had been thrown down to the earth,
he pursued the woman
who had brought forth the male [child].

12:14
And were given to the woman the two wings of the eagle the great,
so that she may fly into the wilderness into the place of her
where she is nourished there a time and times and half a time from [the] face of the serpent.

12:15
And cast the serpent out of the mouth of him after the woman water as a river,
so that her carried away by a flood he may cause to be.

12:16
And gave help the earth to the woman
and opened the earth the mouth of it
and swallowed up the river
which had cast the dragon out of the mouth of him.

12:17
And was angry the dragon with the woman
and went to make war with the rest of the children of her who are keeping the commandments the of God
and holding the testimony the of Jesus

12:18


