3:1
And to the angel of the in Sardis church do write:
These things says the [One] having the seven Spirits the of God
and the seven stars;
I know your the deeds
that the characterization you have that you are alive and yet dead you are.

3:2
do be watching
and do strengthen the [things] that remain which they were about to die;
not for I have found your the works completed in the sight of the God of Mine.

3:3
do remember therefore what you have received and heard —
and do keep [it] and do repent.
If therefore not you shall watch,
I will come upon like like a thief,
and certainly not you may know at what hour I will come upon you.

3:4
But you have a few people in Sardis
who not soiled the garments of them,
and they will walk with Me in white,
because worthy they are.

3:5
The [one] overcoming
thus will be clothed in garments white,
And certainly not will I blot out the name of him from the book the of life
and I will acknowledge the name of him before the Father of Mine and before the angels of Him.

3:6
The [one] having an ear he should hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

3:7
And to the angel of the in Philadelphia church do write:
These things says the Holy [One], the True [One],
who is having the key the
of David, who is opening and no [one] will shut
it (only except that which is being open);

3:8
I know your the deeds.
Behold I have set before you a door opened which no [one] is able to shut it;
because little you have power
and yet you have kept My the word
and not denied the name of Me.

3:9
Behold I may give [those] from the synagogue the of Satan —
those declaring themselves Jews to be and not are,
but they lie —
behold I will cause them that they will come
and they will worship before the feet of you
and they may know that I myself loved you.

3:10
Because you have kept the word of the patient endurance of Mine,
I myself also you will keep out of the hour of the trial
which is being about to come upon the inhabited world whole
to try those dwelling upon the earth.

3:11
behold I am coming quickly;
do hold fast to what you have,
so that no one may take the crown of you.

3:12
The [one] overcoming,
I will make him a pillar in the temple of the God of Mine,
and out certainly not shall he go anymore,
And I will write upon him the name of the God of Mine
and the name of the city of the God of Mine,
the new Jerusalem, which is descending out of the heaven from the God of Mine,
and the name of Me the new.

3:13
The [one] having an ear he should hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

3:14
And to the angel of the in Laodicea church do write:
These things says the Amen, the Witness the faithful and the
true, the Beginning of the creation the of God;

3:15
I know your the works
that neither cold you are nor hot.
I wish cold you were or hot;

3:16
So because lukewarm you are and neither hot nor cold,
I am about you to spit out of the mouth of Mine,

3:17
For you say
that Rich I am and I have grown rich and [of] no [thing] need I have,
And not do you understand that you yourself are the wretched and the miserable
and poor and blind and naked,

3:18
I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined by fire so that you may be rich,
and garments white so that you may be clothed and not may be made manifest the shame of the nakedness of you,
and eye-salve so that to anoint the eyes of you so that you may see.

3:19
I myself as many as if shall love I rebuke and discipline.
do be jealous therefore and do repent.

3:20
Behold I have stood at the door and knock.
If anyone shall hear the voice of Mine and shall open the door,
then I will come in to him
and I will dine with him and he with Me.

3:21
The [one] overcoming,
I will give to him to sit with Me on the throne of Mine
as I myself also overcame
and I sat down with the Father of Mine on the throne of Him.

3:22
The [one] having an ear he should hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

