8:1
And it came to pass afterward the soon
that He himself was traveling throughout city and village
preaching and evangelising of the kingdom the of God
And the Twelve [were] with Him

8:2
and women certain who were cured from spirits evil and infirmities,
Mary who is called Magdalene from whom demons seven had gone out,

8:3
and Joanna wife of Chuza a steward of Herod
and Susanna and others many
who were ministering to them out of the possessions of theirs.

8:4
When were assembling now a crowd great
and those from each town are coming to Him
He spoke through a parable:

8:5
Went out the [one] sowing the to sow the seed of him;
And in the sowing of him
some indeed fell along the road
and it was trampled upon,
and the birds of the air devoured it.

8:6
However other fell upon the rock,
and having sprung up it withered through the not having moisture.

8:7
And other fell in [the] midst of the thorns,
and having sprung up with [it] the thorns choked it.

8:8
And other fell upon the soil the good,
and having sprung up it produced fruit a hundredfold.
These things saying He was calling out;
The [one] having ears to hear he should hear.

8:9
Were asking then Him the disciples of Him saying: What this would mean the parable

8:10
the And He said;
To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom the of God,
to the however rest [it is] in parables
so that Seeing not shall they see
and hearing not shall they understand.’

8:11
Is now this the parable:
The seed is the word the of God.

8:12
Those now along the road are which [are] having heard,
then comes the devil
and takes away the word from the heart of them
that not having believed they may be saved.

8:13
Those now upon the rock,
those who when they may hear with joy receive the word;
and these a root not have,
who for a time believe
and in time of testing fall away.

8:14
That now into the thorns having fallen,
these are those having heard,
and under cares and riches and pleasures the of life
moving along are choked and not do mature.

8:15
That now in the good soil, these are
those in a heart worthy and good having heard the word keep [it]
and they bring forth fruit by perseverance.

8:16
No [one] now a lamp having lighted covers it with a vessel
or under a bed puts [it],
but on a lampstand puts [it]
so that those entering in may see the light.

8:17
Nothing for is hidden which not manifest will become,
nor [is] secret which certainly not may be known and to light come.

8:18
do take heed therefore how you hear;
who[ever] maybe for shall have, will be given to him,
and who[ever] maybe not shall have,
even what he seems to have it will be taken away from him.

8:19
she came then to Him the mother and the brothers of Him
and not they were able to get to Him because of the crowd.

8:20
and It was told also to Him
saying: The mother of You and the brothers of You have stood outside to see wanting You.

8:21
the But answering He said to them;
Mother of Mine and brothers of mine those are
who the word the of God are hearing and doing

8:22
and It came to pass then on one of the days
also He himself climbed into a boat with the disciples of Him
and He said to them;
Let us pass over to the other side of the lake.
And they launched out.

8:23
When were sailing then they
He fell asleep,
And came down a storm of wind on the lake,
and they were being swamped and were in danger.

8:24
Having come to [Him] then they awoke Him saying;
Master Master,
we are perishing!
the And having arisen up He rebuked the wind and the raging of the water.
and they ceased,
and there was a calm.

8:25
He said then to them;
Where is the faith of you?
Having been afraid then they marveled saying to one another;
Who then this is
for even to the winds He commands and to the water, and they obey Him?

8:26
And they sailed down to the region of the Gerasenes
which is opposite the Galilee.

8:27
Having gone forth then to Him upon the land met with him a man certain out of the city who is having demons.
and from time a long not was wearing clothing
and in a house not was abiding but in the tombs.

8:28
Having seen then the Jesus and having cried out he fell down before Him
and in a voice loud said;
What to me myself and to You,
Jesus, Son the of God the Most High?
I implore of You not me You may torment!

8:29
He was commanding for to the spirit the unclean to come out from the man;
Many for times it had seized him,
and he was shackled with chains and in fetters being kept,
and breaking the chains he was driven by the demon into the deserts.

8:30
Asked now him the Jesus
saying: What your name is
the And he said; Legion;
because were entered demons many into him.

8:31
And they were begging Him
that not he would command to them into the abyss to go away.

8:32
There was now there a herd of pigs many feeding in the mountain,
and they begged Him that He would allow them into them to enter.
and He allowed them.

8:33
Having gone out then the demons from the man they entered into the pigs,
and rushed the herd down the steep bank into the lake
and was drowned.

8:34
Having seen then those feeding [them] what already happening they fled
and having gone they reported [it] to the city and to the country.

8:35
They went out then to see that having happened
and they came to the Jesus
and found sitting the man from whom the demons had gone out
clothed and being of sound mind at the feet the of Jesus,
And they were afraid.

8:36
Related then to them and those having seen [it] how was healed the [one] having been demonised.

8:37
And asked Him all the multitude of the surrounding region of the Gerasenes to depart from them,
because with fear great they were seized.
He himself now having climbed into the boat turned back.

8:38
Was begging however Him the man from whom had gone out the demons to be [taken] with Him.
He sent away however him the

8:39
do return to the house of you
and do relate how much for you has done the God.
And he departed through all the city proclaiming how much did for him the Jesus.

8:40
it came to pass When then the [is] returning the Jesus
received Him the crowd;
they were for all looking for Him.

8:41
And behold came a man whose name [was] Jairus,
and he a ruler of the synagogue was.
and having fallen at the feet the of Jesus he was begging Him to come to the house of him

8:42
because daughter an only was to him about years [old] twelve and she was dying.
As then the [is] to go He the crowds were pressing around Him.

8:43
And a woman being with a flux of blood for years twelve,
who into on physicians having spent all the living of her neither was able by no [one] to be healed,

8:44
having come behind [Him] she touched the fringe the of cloak of Him,
and immediately stopped the flux of the blood of her.

8:45
And said the Jesus;
Who [is] the [one] having touched Me?
When is denying [it] however everyone
said the Peter
and
those with him: Master, the people

8:46
the But Jesus said;
Touched Me someone;
I myself for know power having left from Me.

8:47
Having seen then the woman that not she was hid, trembling she came and having fallen down before Him,
for what cause she touched Him she declared to him before all the people
and how she was healed immediately.

8:48
the And He said to her;
Take courage daughter, the faith of you has healed you;
do go in peace.

8:49
Still when he is speaking
comes one from the synagogue ruler saying
to him that Has died the daughter of You; no longer do trouble the Teacher.

8:50
the But Jesus having heard He answered to him
saying; Not do fear; only do believe, and she will be saved.

8:51
having entered then into the house not He did allow to go in anyone with Him
only except Peter and John and James,
and the father of the child and the mother.

8:52
They were weeping now all and they were mourning for her.
the But He said;
Not do weep; not for she is dead
but sleeps.

8:53
And they were laughing at Him, knowing that she was dead.

8:54
He himself now having taken out outside all and having taken hold of the
hand of her
called out

8:55
And returned the spirit of her,
and she arose immediately,
and He directed to her to be given to eat.

8:56
And were amazed the parents of her.
the and He instructed to them no one to tell what having happened.

