4:1
Jesus then full of [the] Spirit Holy returned from the Jordan
and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness

4:2
days forty being tempted by the devil.
And not He ate no [thing] in the days those,
and when were ending they
afterward

4:3
and Said then to Him the devil;
If [the] Son You are the of God,
do speak to the stone this that it may become bread.

4:4
And answered to him the Jesus
saying:
It has been written that Not on bread alone will live the man’

4:5
And having led up Him the devil into mountain high he showed to Him all the kingdoms

4:6
And said to Him the devil;
To You will I give the authority this all and the glory of it,
for to me myself it has been delivered
and to whom maybe I shall wish I give it;

4:7
You yourself therefore if You shall worship before me will be Yours everything.

4:8
And answering the Jesus said to him
do go
behind me Satan; It has been written: for
[The] Lord the God of you

4:9
and He led also Him to Jerusalem
and set him upon the pinnacle of the temple
and said to Him;
If the Son You are the of God,
do cast Yourself from here down;

4:10
It has been written for
that To the angels of Him He will give orders concerning You the to guard You;

4:11
and that in [their] hands will they bear You,
otherwise You may strike against a stone the foot of You.’

4:12
And answering He said to him the Jesus that It has been said;
Not you will test [the] Lord the God of you.’

4:13
And having finished every temptation the devil departed from Him until an opportune time.

4:14
And returned the Jesus in the power of the Spirit to the Galilee,
and a report went out into all the surrounding region concerning Him.

4:15
And He himself was teaching in the synagogues of them
being glorified by all.

4:16
And He came to the Nazareth where He was raised,
and He entered according to the being customary to Him on the day of the Sabbaths into the synagogue
and stood up to read.

4:17
And there was given to Him [the] scroll of the prophet Isaiah;
and having unrolled the scroll He found the place where it was written

4:18
[The] Spirit of [the] Lord [is] upon Me myself,
of which because He has anointed Me to evangelise to [the] poor,
He has sent Me to heal the bruised the heart to proclaim
to [the] captives deliverance and to [the] blind

4:19
to proclaim [the] year of [the] Lord’s favor.

4:20
And having rolled up the scroll having delivered [it] to the attendant He sat down,
and of all the eyes in the synagogue were fixed upon Him.

4:21
He began then to say to them
that Today has been fulfilled the Scripture this in the hearing of you.

4:22
And all were bearing witness to Him
and they were marveling at the words of the grace which are proceeding out of the mouth of Him
and they were saying;
surely [the] son is the of Joseph this?

4:23
And He said to them;
Surely you will say to Me the proverb this;
Physician
do heal yourself!
As much as we have heard has been done in the Capernaum, do perform also here in the hometown of You.

4:24
He said then;
Amen I say to you
that no prophet acceptable is in the hometown of him.

4:25
In truth now I say to you;
many widows there were in the days of Elijah in the Israel
when was shut up the heaven for years three and months six,
when there was a famine great upon all the land;

4:26
and to none of them was sent Elijah only except to Zarephath the of Sidon to a woman a widow.

4:27
And many lepers were in the Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet;
and none of them was cleansed only except Naaman the Syrian.

4:28
And were filled all with anger in the synagogue hearing these things;

4:29
and having risen up they cast Him out of the city
and led Him unto the brow of the hill upon which the town had been built of them in order to throw over him.

4:30
He himself however having passed through [the] midst of them was going away.

4:31
And He went down to Capernaum a city the of Galilee
And He was teaching them on the Sabbaths.

4:32
and they were astonished at the teaching of Him
for with authority was the message of Him.

4:33
And in the synagogue was a man having a spirit of a demon unclean,
and he cried out in a voice loud;

4:34
saying Ha! What to us and to You, Jesus of Nazareth?
Are You come to destroy us?
I know You who are, the Holy [One] the of God.

4:35
And rebuked him the Jesus saying;
do be silent and do come forth out of him!
And having thrown him the demon into the midst it came out from him in nothing having hurt him.

4:36
And came astonishment upon all,
and they were speaking to one another saying;
What the word [is] this
for with authority and power He commands the unclean spirits,
and they come out?

4:37
And was spreading [the] report concerning Him into every place of the surrounding region.

4:38
Having risen up then out of the synagogue He entered into the house of Simon.
The mother-in-law then the of Simon was oppressed with a fever great,
and they appealed to Him for her.

4:39
And having stood over her He rebuked the fever,
and it left her;
immediately then having arisen she was serving them.

4:40
When is setting now the sun all as many as had [any] ailing with diseases various brought them to Him;
the and on one each of them the hands having laid He was healing them.

4:41
Were going out now also demons from many
shouting out and saying
that You yourself are the Christ Son Son the of God.
And rebuking [them] not was He allowing them to speak
because they knew the Christ Him to be.

4:42
When was arriving now daybreak
having gone out He went into a solitary place,
and the crowds were sought after Him
and they came up to Him
and were detaining Him of the not to go from them.

4:43
the But He said to them
that Also to the other towns to evangelise Me it behooves of the kingdom the of God,
because for this have I been sent forth.

4:44
And He was preaching in the synagogues the of Judea.

