3:1
In year then fifteenth of the reign of Tiberius Caesar,
when is being governor Pontius Pilate the of Judea
and when is being tetrarch the of Galilee Herod,
Philip now the brother when he is being tetrarch the of Ituraea and of Trachonitis [the] region
and Lysanias the of Abilene being tetrarch

3:2
during [the] high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas,
came [the] declaration of God upon John the the of Zechariah son
in the wilderness.

3:3
And he went into all the surrounding region of the Jordan
proclaiming a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins

3:4
as it has been written in [the] book of [the] words of Isaiah the prophet
saying: [The] voice of one crying in the wilderness
do prepare the way of [the] Lord,
straight do make the paths of Him.

3:5
Every valley will be filled
and every mountain and hill will be made low;
and will become the crooked into straight
and the rough into ways smooth;

3:6
and will behold all flesh the salvation the of God.

3:7
He was saying therefore to the coming out crowds to be baptized by him;
Offspring of vipers,
who forewarned you to flee from the soon coming wrath?

3:8
do produce therefore fruits worthy the of repentance;
and not may begin to say in yourselves;
[As] father We have the Abraham.
I say for to you
that is able the God from the stones these to raise up children the to Abraham.

3:9
Already now also the ax to the root of the trees is applied;
every therefore tree not producing fruit good is cut down and into [the] fire is thrown.

3:10
And were asking him the crowds saying;
What then shall we do?

3:11
Answering now he was saying to them;
The [one] having two tunics he should impart to the [one] none having
and the [one] having food likewise he should do.

3:12
Came then also tax collectors to be baptized
and they said to him;
Teacher,
what shall we do?

3:13
the And he said to them;
Nothing more beyond that appointed to you do collect.

3:14
Were asking then him also those being soldiers saying;
What may do also we ourselves
And he said to
to them; No one
may extort nor may accuse falsely
and do be content with the wages of you.

3:15
When were expecting then the people
and wondering all in the hearts of them concerning the John,
whether he himself would be the Christ,

3:16
Answered saying [to] all the John:
I myself indeed with water baptize you;
comes however the [One] mightier than I,
of whom not I am worthy to untie the strap of the sandals of Him.
He himself you will baptize with [the] Spirit Holy and with fire,

3:17
of whom the winnowing fork [is] in the hand of Him
and to scour the threshing floor of Him
and to gather the wheat into the barn of Him.
the But the chaff He will burn up with fire unquenchable.

3:18
Many indeed therefore other things exhorting he was evangelising the people.

3:19
the And Herod the tetrarch
being reproved by him concerning Herodias the wife of Philip of the brother of him
and concerning all that did [the] evils the Herod,

3:20
added yet this to all:
Also he locked up the John in the

3:21
It came to pass now in the baptizing all the people
and when Jesus having been baptized and having prayed
[was] opening the heaven

3:22
and descending the Spirit the Holy in a bodily form as a dove upon Him
and a voice out of heaven coming
saying: You yourself are the Son of Mine the beloved,
in You I am well pleased.

3:23
And Himself was the Jesus beginning about years [old] thirty
being son, as was supposed of Joseph the of Heli

3:24
the of Matthat the of Levi the of Melchi the of Jannai the of Joseph

3:25
the of Mattathias the of Amos the of Nahum the of Esli the of Naggai

3:26
the of Maath the of Mattathias the of Semein the of Josech the of Joda

3:27
the of Joannen the of Rhesa the of Zerubbabel the of Shealtiel the of Neri

3:28
the of Melchi the of Addi the of Cosam the of Elmadam the of Er

3:29
the of Joshua the of Eliezer the of Jorim the of Matthat the of Levi

3:30
the of Simeon the of Judah the of Joseph the of Jonam the of Eliakim

3:31
the of Melea the of Menna the of Mattatha the of Nathan the of David

3:32
the of Jesse the of Obed the of Boaz the of Sala the of Nahshon

3:33
the of Amminadab the of Admin the of Arni the of Hezron the of Perez the of Judah

3:34
the of Jacob the of Isaac the of Abraham the of Terah the of Nahor

3:35
the of Serug the of Reu the of Peleg the of Heber the of Shelah

3:36
the of Cainan the of Arphaxad the of Shem the of Noah the of Lamech

3:37
the of Methuselah the of Enoch the of Jared the of Mahalalel the of Cainan

3:38
the of Enosh the of Seth the of Adam the of God.

