15:1
Were now to Him drawing near all the tax collectors and the sinners to hear Him.

15:2
And were grumbling the both Pharisees and the scribes saying
that This [man] sinners receives
and he eats with them.

15:3
He spoke then to them the parable this saying;

15:4
What man of you having a hundred sheep and having lost of them one not leaves the ninety nine in the open field
and goes after the [one] having been lost until he may find it?

15:5
And having found [it] he lays [it] on the shoulders of him rejoicing,

15:6
And having come to the house he calls together the friends and the neighbours saying to them;
do rejoice with me,
for I have found the sheep of mine the [one] having been lost!

15:7
I say to you
that in the same way joy in the heaven there will be over one sinner repenting
rather than over ninety nine righteous ones who no need have of repentance.

15:8
Or what woman drachmas having ten, if she may lose drachma one,
surely she lights a lamp
and she sweeps the house
and she seeks carefully until it she may find?

15:9
And having found [it] she calls together the friends and the neighbours
saying; do rejoice with me,
for I have found the drachma that I lost.

15:10
Thus I say to you,
there is joy before the angels the of God over one sinner repenting.

15:11
He said then;
A man certain had two sons.

15:12
And said the younger of them to the father;
Father, do give to me what is due [to me] portion of the property.
the then he divided between them the property.

15:13
And after not many days having gathered together all [things] the younger son went away into a country distant
and there he wasted the estate of him living prodigally.

15:14
When was spending however he everything
there arose a famine severe throughout the country that,
and he himself began to be in need.

15:15
And having gone he joined himself to one of the citizens the country of that,
and he sent him into the fields of him to feed pigs.

15:16
And he was longing to be fed the stomach of him from the pods that were eating the pigs,
and no [one] was giving to him.

15:17
To himself however having come he was saying;
How many hired servants of the father of mine have abundance of bread,
I myself however with hunger here am perishing!

15:18
Having risen up I will go to the father of mine
and I will say to him;
Father,
I have sinned against the heaven and before you;

15:19
and no longer am I worthy to be called son of you.
do make me like one of the servants of you.

15:20
And having risen up he went to the father of himself
Still now he far being distant
he saw him the father of him
and was moved with compassion,
and having run he fell upon the neck of him
and he kissed him.

15:21
Said then the son to him:
Father,
I have sinned against the heaven and before you;
and no longer am I worthy to be called son of you

15:22
Said then the father to the servants of him;
Quickly do bring out the robe the best
and do clothe him
and do give a ring for the hand of him
and sandals for the [his] feet,

15:23
and do bring the calf the fattened, do kill [it],
and having eaten let us be merry,

15:24
For this the son of mine dead was and is alive again,
and he was having been lost and is found.
And they began to be merry.

15:25
Was now the son of him the elder in [the] field.
and while coming [up] he drew near to the house,
he heard music and dancing.

15:26
And having called near one of the servants of him he was inquiring what maybe would be these things.

15:27
the And he said to him
that The brother of you is come,
and has killed the father of you the calf the fattened,
because in good health him he has received.

15:28
He was angry however and not he was willing to go in.
the And the father of him having gone he was begging him.

15:29
the And answering he said to the [the] father of him;
Behold so many years I serve you
and never a commandment of you I disobeyed,
and to me myself never did you give a young goat
that with the friends of mine I may make merry.

15:30
When however the son of you this the [one] having devoured your the living with the prostitutes came,
you have killed for him the fattened the

15:31
the And he said to him;
Son, you yourself always with me are,
and all that [is] mine yours is.

15:32
To make merry however and to rejoice it was fitting,
because the brother of you this dead was and is alive ,
and having been lost was and is found.

