16:1
He was saying now also to the disciples
of him: A man certain there was rich who had a manager,
and he was accused unto him as wasting the possessions of him.

16:2
And having called him he said to him;
What [is] this I hear concerning you?
do give the account of the stewardship of you;
not for you are able any longer to manage.

16:3
Said then within himself the manager;
What shall I do,
for the master of me is taking away the management from me?
To dig not I am able,
to beg I am ashamed.

16:4
I know what I may do
so that when I may have been removed from the management they may receive me into the homes of them.

16:5
And having called to [him] one each of the debtors of the master his own he was saying to the first;
How much owe you to the master of me?

16:6
the then he said; A hundred baths of oil.
the then he said to him;
do take your the bills
and having sat down soon do write fifty.

16:7
Then to another he said;
You yourself now how much owe?
the And he said; A hundred cors of wheat.
and He says to him; do take your the bills
and do write eighty.

16:8
And praised the master the manager the unrighteous
because shrewdly he had acted,
For the sons of the age this more shrewd
than the sons of the light in the generation the their own are.

16:9
and I myself to you say;
for yourselves do make friends by the wealth the of unrighteousness,
that when it may fail they may receive you into the eternal dwellings.

16:10
The [one] faithful with very little also with much faithful is,
and the [one] with very little unrighteous also with much unrighteous is.

16:11
If therefore in the unrighteous wealth faithful not you have been,
the true [riches] who to you will entrust?

16:12
And if in that which [is] of another faithful not you have been,
that which [is] yours who to you will give

16:13
No servant is able to two masters to serve;
either for the one he will hate and the other he will love,
or to one he will be devoted and the other he will despise.
Not you are able God to serve and money.

16:14
Were listening to now these things all and the Pharisees lovers of money being
and they were ridiculing Him.

16:15
And He said to them;
You yourselves are those justifying themselves before the men,
the but God knows the hearts of you
for that which among men [is] exalted an abomination before the God

16:16
The law and the prophets [were] until John;
from that time the kingdom the of God is evangelised [about],
and everyone into it forces his way.

16:17
Easier for however it is the heaven and the earth to pass away
than of the law one stroke of a pen to fail.

16:18
Everyone who is putting away the wife of him and marrying another commits adultery,
And everyone who separated her from a husband marrying commits adultery.

16:19
A man now certain there was rich
and he was clothed in purple and fine linen making good cheer every day in splendor.

16:20
A poor man now certain was named Lazarus who at at the gate of him
full of sores

16:21
and desiring to be fed from the crumbs that falling from

16:22
It came to pass that then to die the poor man
and to be carried away he by the angels into the bosom the
of Abraham; Died then also the rich man and was buried.

16:23
And in the Hades having lifted up the eyes of him, being in torment he sees the Abraham from afar and Lazarus in the bosom of him.

16:24
And he himself having cried out said;
Father Abraham,
do have mercy on me
and do send Lazarus
that he may dip the tip of the finger of him in water and may cool the tongue of mine,
for I am suffering in the flame this.

16:25
Said then Abraham;
Child, do remember that you did fully receive you yourself the [things] good of you in the lifetime of you,
and Lazarus likewise the [things] harmful.
Now however here he is comforted,
you yourself now are suffering.

16:26
And besides all these things between us and you a chasm great has been fixed
so that those desiring to pass from here to you not may be able
nor those from there to us they shall pass.

16:27
He said then;
I implore you then father,
that you may send him to the house of the father of mine —

16:28
I have for five brothers —
so that he may warn to them
that not also they themselves may come to the place this the of torment.

16:29
Says however to him
Abraham; They have Moses and the prophets; they should listen to them.

16:30
the And he said; No,
father Abraham,
but if one from [the] dead shall go to them, they will repent.

16:31
He said however to him;
If to Moses and the prophets not they listen,
not even if one out from [the] dead shall rise will they be persuaded.

