12:1
In these [times] when were gathering the myriads of the crowd so as to trample upon one another
He began to say to the disciples of Him first;
do take heed to yourselves of the leaven
which is hypocrisy of the Pharisees.

12:2
No [thing] now concealed is
which not will be revealed,
nor hidden which not will be known.

12:3
Instead that as much as in the darkness you have said
in the light will be heard,
and what into the ear you have spoken in the inner rooms will be proclaimed upon the housetops.

12:4
I say now to you those friends of Mine; not you may fear because of those killing the body
and after these things not being able more excessive anything to do.

12:5
I will show however you whom you may fear:
do fear the [One who] after the killing has authority to cast into the hell.
Yes I say to you; Him do fear.

12:6
Surely five sparrows are being sold for assarion two?
And one of them not is forgotten before the God;

12:7
But even the hairs of the head of you all have been numbered.
Not therefore
do fear; than many sparrows you are more valuable.

12:8
I say now to you;
everyone who maybe may confess in Me myself before the men,
also the Son the of Man will confess in him before the angels the of God;

12:9
the [one] now having denied Me before the men will be denied before the angels the of God.

12:10
And everyone who will speak a word against the Son the of Man, it will be forgiven to him;
to the [one] however [who] against the Holy Spirit having blasphemed not will be forgiven.

12:11
When then they may bring in you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities,
not may be anxious how or what you may present a defense or what you may say;

12:12
the for Holy Spirit will teach you in same the hour what it behooves [you] to say.

12:13
Said then one from the crowd to Him:
Teacher, do say to the brother of mine to divide with me the inheritance.

12:14
the And He said to him;
Man,
who Me appointed a judge or partitioner over you?

12:15
He said then to them;
do watch
and do keep yourselves from all covetousness,
for not in the abounding to anyone
the life to him is of the possessions of him.

12:16
He spoke then a parable to them saying;
Of a man certain rich brought forth abundantly the ground.

12:17
And he was reasoning within himself saying;
What shall I do for not I have
where I will store up the fruits of mine?

12:18
And he said;
This will I do:
I will tear down my the barns
and greater will build
and will store up there all the grain of mine and the goods of mine

12:19
And I will say to the soul of mine;
Soul,
you have many good things laid up for years many.
do rest yourself
do eat,
do drink, do be merry.

12:20
Said then to him the God;
Fool!
On this the night the soul of you is required of you.
what now you did prepare — to whom will [it] be?

12:21
So [is] the [one] treasuring up for himself and not toward God being rich.

12:22
He said then to the disciples of Him;
Because of this I say to you: not do be anxious for the life of you what
you may eat, nor [be anxious] for the body of you what

12:23
The for life more is than the food,
and the body than the clothing.

12:24
do consider the ravens that not they sow
nor they reap
to them not there is a storehouse nor [is] barn —
and the God feeds them;
How much more you yourselves are valuable than the birds?

12:25
Which now of you being anxious is able to the lifespan of him to add hour

12:26
If then not even [the] least you are able [to do],
why about the rest are you anxious?

12:27
do consider the lilies
how they grow:
Not do they labor
nor do they spin.
I say however to you; not even Solomon
in all the glory of him was arrayed as one of these.

12:28
If however in [the] the field the grass being [here] today and tomorrow into [the] furnace being thrown the God thus dresses,
how much more you, O [you] of little faith?

12:29
And you yourselves not do seek what you may eat
and what you may drink, and not do worry yourself.

12:30
these things for all the nations of the world seek for;
of you now the Father knows that you have need of these.

12:31
But do seek the kingdom the of Him
and these things all things will be added

12:32
Not do fear, O little flock,
for took delight the Father of you to give you the kingdom.

12:33
do sell the possessions of you
and do give alms;
do make to yourselves purses not growing old,
a treasure unfailing in the heavens
where thief not does draw near
nor moth destroy;

12:34
Where for is the treasure of you,
there also the heart of you will be.

12:35
should be your the waist girded and the lamps burning,

12:36
and you yourselves like to men
waiting for the master of themselves whenever he may return from the wedding feasts,
that having come and having knocked immediately they may open to him.

12:37
Blessed [are] the servants those
whom having come the master will find watching;
Amen I say to you
that he will gird himself
and he will make recline them,
and having come up he will serve them.

12:38
And if he may come in the second watch and if in the third watch he may come
and he may find [them] thus,
blessed are the

12:39
This however do know that if had known the master of the house in what hour the thief is coming,
not he watched maybe and he have allowed he have allowed to be broken into the house of him.

12:40
Also you yourselves therefore do be ready,
for in the hour not you expect
the Son the of Man comes.

12:41
Said then to him the Peter;
Lord, to us the parable this speak You or also to all?

12:42
And said now the Lord;
Who then is the faithful manager the wise
whom will set the master over the care [of servants] of him the to give [them] in season the measure of food?

12:43
Blessed [is] the servant that [one]
whom having come the master of him will find doing thus.

12:44
Of a truth I say to you
that over all the possessions of him he will set him.

12:45
If however shall say the servant that [one] in the heart of him;
Delays the master of Me to come,
and shall begin to beat the men-servants and the maid-servants
to eat also and to drink and to get drunk,

12:46
will come the master of the servant that [one] in a day
in which not he does expect
and in an hour that not he knows
and he will cut in two him
and the place of him with the unbelievers will appoint.

12:47
That [very] now the servant the [one] having known the will of the master of him and not having prepared or having done according to the will of him will be beaten with many [blows].

12:48
the [one] however not having known having done however [things] worthy of stripes will be beaten with few.
Everyone now to whom has been given much,
much will be required from him;
and to whom has been committed much, more excessive will they ask of him.

12:49
Fire I came to cast upon the earth
and how I wish if already it be kindled!

12:50
Baptism however I have to be baptized [with]
and how I am distressed until while it may be accomplished!

12:51
Think you that peace I came to give on the earth?
No, I say to you,
but rather division.

12:52
There will be for from the now five in one house divided,
three against two and two against three

12:53
They will be divided father against son and son against father,
mother against the daughter and daughter against the mother,
mother-in-law against the daughter-in-law of her and daughter-in-law against the mother-in-law

12:54
He was saying now also to the crowds;
When you may see the a cloud rising up from [the] west, immediately you say that A shower is coming,
and it happens so.

12:55
And when a south wind is blowing, you say
that Heat there will be, and it happens.

12:56
Hypocrites!
The appearance of the earth and of the sky you know [how] to discern,
the time however this how not do you know to discern?

12:57
Why now even for yourselves not judge you what [is] right?

12:58
As for you are going with the adversary of you before a magistrate,
in the way do give earnestness to have been set free from him
otherwise he may drag away you to the judge,
and the judge you will deliver to the officer,
and the officer you will cast into prison.

12:59
I say to you; certainly not shall you come out from there until of which even the last lepton you may have paid.

