9:1
Having called together then the Twelve disciples He gave He gave to them power and authority over all the demons and diseases to heal

9:2
and He sent them to proclaim the kingdom the of God
and to heal the sick.

9:3
and He said to them;
Nothing do take for the journey;
neither staff
nor bag
nor bread
nor money
nor apiece two tunics to have.

9:4
And into whatever maybe house you may enter,
there do remain
and from there do go forth.

9:5
And as many as maybe not shall receive you,
going forth from the city that and the dust from the feet of you do shake off as a testimony against them.

9:6
Going forth then they were passing through the villages
evangelising and healing everywhere.

9:7
Heard of now Herod the Tetrarch the [things] being done by
him and and was perplexed because of the saying by some
that John has been raised out from [the] dead,

9:8
by some also that Elijah had appeared,
by others also that a prophet someone of the ancients had arisen.

9:9
and Said then the Herod;
John I myself beheaded;
who however is this concerning whom I myself I hear
such things? And he was seeking to see Him.

9:10
And having returned the apostles related to Him as much as they had done.
And having taken them He withdrew by in private into place solitary a town

9:11
The now crowds having known [it] they followed Him.
and having received them He was speaking to them concerning the kingdom the of God,
and those need having of healing He was healing.

9:12
the And the day began to decline.
having come then the Twelve said to Him;
do dismiss the crowd
that having travelled into the surrounding villages and the countryside they may lodge
and they may find provisions;
for here in a desolate place we are.

9:13
He said now to them;
do give to them you yourselves to eat.
the But they said;
Not there are to us more than loaves five and fish two,
except surely even having gone we ourselves shall buy for all the people this food.

9:14
They were for about men five thousand.
He said then to the disciples of Him;
do make sit down them groups of about in fifty.

9:15
And they did so and he sat all.

9:16
Having taken then the five loaves and the two fish, having looked up to the heaven
He blessed them
and broke [them]
and He was giving [them] to the disciples to set before the crowd.

9:17
And they ate and were satisfied all,
and was taken up that having been a surplus to them of fragments hand-baskets twelve.

9:18
And it came to pass as the happening He is praying in solitary
were with Him the disciples,
and He questioned them saying;
Whom Me do pronounce the crowds to be?

9:19
the And answering they said;
John the Baptist,
others also Elijah,
others now that a prophet one of the ancients has arisen.

9:20
He said then to them;
You yourselves however whom Me do pronounce to be?
the Peter then answering said;
The Christ the of God.

9:21
the And having strictly warned to them He instructed [them] to no one to tell this

9:22
having said
that It is necessary for the Son the of Man many things to suffer
and to be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes
and to be killed
and on the third day to be raised.

9:23
He was saying then to all;
If anyone desires after Me to come,
he should deny himself
and he should take up the cross of him every day
and he should follow Me.

9:24
Who[ever] for maybe shall desire the life of him to save, will lose it;
who[ever] however maybe may lose the life of him on account of me, he will save it.

9:25
What for is profited a man having gained the world whole
himself now having destroyed or having suffered the loss of?

9:26
Who[ever] for maybe may have been ashamed of Me and the My words,
him the Son the of Man will be ashamed of
when He may come in the glory of Himself and of the Father and of the holy angels.

9:27
I say now to you truthfully
there are some of those there already standing
who certainly not may taste of death until maybe they may have seen the kingdom the of God.

9:28
It came to pass now after the sayings these about days eight,
and having taken the Peter and John and James He went up on the mountain to pray.

9:29
And it came to pass during the praying by Him
the appearance of the face of Him [was] altered,
and the clothing of Him white became dazzling.

9:30
And behold men two were talking with Him
who were Moses and Elijah;

9:31
Those having appeared in glory were speaking of the going out of Him
which He was soon to accomplish in Jerusalem.

9:32
the And Peter and those with him were wearied with sleep.
having awoken fully then they saw the glory of Him
and the two men who already standing with Him.

9:33
And it came to pass in the departing of them from Him
said the Peter to the Jesus;
Master,
good it is for us here to be,
also let us make tabernacles three,
one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah;
not knowing what he is saying.

9:34
These things then when he is saying
came a cloud and was overshadowing them.
they feared then in the entering of them into the cloud.

9:35
And a voice came out of the cloud saying;
This is the Son of Mine the chosen, to Him do listen.

9:36
And as the happening the voice was found the Jesus alone.
And they themselves were silent
and to no [one] they told in those the days no [thing] of what they have seen.

9:37
It came to pass then in the next day
when were descending they from the mountain
met with Him a crowd great.

9:38
And behold a man from the crowd cried saying;
Teacher,
I implore You to look upon the son of mine
for an only child to me he is;

9:39
And behold a spirit takes him
and suddenly he cries out
and it throws into convulsions him with foaming
and with difficulty it departs from him bruising him.

9:40
And I begged the disciples of You that they may cast out it,
and not they were able.

9:41
Answering now the Jesus said,
O generation unbelieving and perverted, until when will I be with you and I will bear with you?
do bring here the son of you.

9:42
While then when is coming near he
threw down him the demon and threw [him] into convulsions.
Rebuked then the Jesus the spirit the unclean
and healed the boy
and gave back him to the father of him.

9:43
Were astonished then all at the majesty the of God.
Of all however wondering at all which was doing
the He said He said to the disciples of Him;

9:44
do implant in yourself you yourselves into the ears of you the words these;
the for the Son the of Man is soon to be betrayed into [the] hands of men.

9:45
the But they were not understanding the declaration this,
and it was veiled from them that not they may understand it.
And they were afraid to ask Him concerning the declaration this.

9:46
Came up then an argument among them this who maybe would be greater of them.

9:47
the But Jesus knowing the reasoning of the heart of them, having taken hold of a child set it by Himself

9:48
and He said to them;
Who[ever] maybe shall receive this the child in the name of Me, Me myself receives;
and who[ever] maybe Me myself shall receive, receives the [One] having sent Me.
The [one] for least among all you being he is great.

9:49
Answering now the John
said;
Master, we saw someone in the name of You casting out demons
and we were forbidding him
because not he follows with us.

9:50
and Said then to him the Jesus;
Not do forbid;
who[ever] for not is against you for you is.

9:51
It came to pass then in the completing the days of the ascension of Him
that He himself the face of him steadfastly set the to go to Jerusalem.

9:52
And He sent messengers before [the] face of Him.
And having gone they entered into a village of the Samaritans so as to make ready for Him.

9:53
And not they did receive Him
because the face of Him was [as] going toward Jerusalem.

9:54
Having seen [it] now the disciples of him James and John said;
Lord, do you want [that] we may call fire to come down from the heaven and to consume them

9:55
Having turned then He rebuked them

9:56
the for the son the of man

9:57
And it came to pass now they they along the road
said someone to Him;
I will follow You wherever maybe You shall go

9:58
And said to him the Jesus;
The foxes holes have,
and the birds of the air nests;
the but the Son the of Man not has where the head He may lay.

9:59
He said then to another;
do follow Me.
the But he said;
Lord do allow me having gone away first to bury the father of mine.

9:60
He said then to him
the Jesus: the the dead to bury the their own dead.
you yourself however having gone forth do declare the kingdom the of God.

9:61
Said then also another;
I will follow You, Lord;
first however do allow me to bid farewell to those at the home of mine.

9:62
Said then to the the Jesus:
No [one] having laid the hand of him upon [the] plow
and looking on the [things] back suitable is for the kingdom the of God.

