5:1
It came to pass then in the the crowd pressing on Him also to hear the word the of God
and He himself was already standing by the lake of Gennesaret

5:2
and He saw two boats already lying by the lake.
the but the fishermen from them having gone out were washing the nets.

5:3
Having climbed then into one of the boats which was of the
Simon’s, He asked him from the land to put off a little.
and Having sat down then from the boat He was teaching the crowds.

5:4
When then He left off speaking
He said to the Simon;
do put off into the deep
and do lower the nets of you for a catch.

5:5
And answering the Simon said
to him:
Master, through whole the night having toiled no [thing] have we taken,
at however the declaration of You I will let down the nets.

5:6
And this having done they enclosed a multitude of fishes great;
were breaking now the nets of them.

5:7
And they beckoned to the partners to the in the other boat the having come to help them.
and they came
and filled both the boats so that [were] sinking they.

5:8
Having seen now Simon Peter fell at the knees the of Jesus saying;
do depart from me,
for a man sinful am I,
Lord.

5:9
Amazement for laid hold on him and on all those with him
at the catch of the fish which they had taken,

5:10
likewise now also James and John [the] sons of Zebedee,
who were partners the with Simon.
And said to the Simon the Jesus;
Not do fear;
from the now on men you will be catching.

5:11
And having brought the boats to the land, having left all [things] they followed Him.

5:12
And it came to pass in the being Him in one of the cities
that behold a man full of leprosy;
and having seen then the Jesus, having fallen upon [his] face begged Him saying;
Lord, if You shall be willing, You are able me to cleanse.

5:13
And having stretched out the hand He touched him saying;
I am willing, do be cleansed.
And immediately the leprosy departed from him.

5:14
And He himself ordered him no one to tell
But having gone do show yourself to the priest
and do offer for the cleansing of you
even as commanded Moses for a testimony to them.

5:15
Was spread abroad now still more the report concerning Him;
and were coming crowds great to hear
and to be healed by from from the sicknesses of them;

5:16
He Himself now was withdrawing into the wilderness and praying.

5:17
And it came to pass on one of the days
that He himself was teaching;
and there were sitting by Pharisees and teachers of the law
who were already coming out of every village the of Galilee and of Judea and of Jerusalem,
And [the] power of [the] Lord was with the to heal Him.

5:18
And behold men carrying upon a mat a man who was paralyzed,
and they were seeking him to bring in and to place him before Him.

5:19
And not having found through what way they may bring in him on account of the crowd,
having gone up on the housetop
through the tiles they let down him with the mat into the midst before the Jesus.

5:20
And having seen the faith of them
He said
to him:
Man, have been forgiven you the sins of you.

5:21
And began to reason the scribes and the Pharisees saying;
Who is this who speaks blasphemies?
Who is able sins to forgive only except [the] sole the God?

5:22
Having known now the Jesus the reasonings of them answering He said to them;
Why reason you in the hearts of you?

5:23
Which is easier, to say;
Have been forgiven you the sins of you,
or to say; do arise and do walk?

5:24
That however you may know that the Son the of Man authority has on the earth to forgive sins..,
He said to the [one] paralyzed;
To you I say, do arise
and having taken up the mat of you, do go to the house of you.

5:25
And immediately having stood up before them, having taken up [that] on which he was lying,
he departed to the home of him glorifying the God.

5:26
And amazement seized all,
and they were glorifying the God
and were filled with fear
saying
that We have seen remarkable things today.

5:27
And after these things He went forth
and He saw a tax collector named Levi
sitting at the tax booth
and He said to him;
do follow Me.

5:28
And having left all [things] having arisen he was following Him.

5:29
And made a banquet great the Levi for Him in the house of him,
and there was a multitude great of tax collectors and others who were with them reclining.

5:30
And were grumbling the Pharisees and the scribes of them at the disciples of Him saying;
Because of why with the tax collectors and sinners do you eat and drink?

5:31
And answering the Jesus said to them;
No need have those being well of a physician
but those sick being.

5:32
Not I have come to call righteous [ones]
but sinners to repentance.

5:33
the And they said to Him;
through why disciples disciples of John fast often
and prayers make, likewise also those of the Pharisees,
those however of You eat and drink.

5:34
the And Jesus said to them;
Not are you able the sons of the bridechamber
in which [time] the bridegroom with them is, to make to fast?

5:35
Will come however days
also when may be taken away from them the bridegroom,
then they will fast in those the days.

5:36
He was speaking now also a parable to them
that No [one] a piece of a garment new having torn puts [it] on a garment old; lest then except
indeed also the new will tear,
and to the old not it will match the piece the of the new.

5:37
And no [one] puts wine new into wineskins old; lest then except
indeed will burst the wine the new the wineskins
and it will be spilled out,
and the wineskins will be destroyed;

5:38
But wine new into wineskins fresh must be put

5:39
And no [one] having drunk old [wine] immediately desires
new, he says for; The old good is.

