2:1
And He was entering again into Capernaum after [some] days and it was heard that in [the] house He is.

2:2
And immediately were gathered together many so that no more to have space not even [space] the at the door,
and He was speaking to them the word.

2:3
And they come bringing to Him a paralytic being carried by four.

2:4
And not being able to bring to to Him on account of the crowd
they removed the roof
where He was
and having broken up [it] they let down the pallet
where the paralytic was lying.

2:5
And having seen now the Jesus the faith of them He says to the paralytic;
Son,
are forgiven of you the sins

2:6
were now some of the scribes there sitting
and reasoning in the hearts of them;

2:7
Why this [man] thus does speak?
He blasphemes!
Who is able to forgive sins
only except one the God?

2:8
And immediately having known the Jesus in the spirit of Him that thus they themselves are reasoning within themselves He speaks to them;
Why these things reason you in the hearts of you?

2:9
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic;
Are forgiven of you the sins,
or to say;
do arise
and do take up the mat of you and do walk?

2:10
That however you may know that authority has the Son the of Man to forgive on on the earth He says to the
paralytic;

2:11
To you I say;
do arise and do take up the mat of you
and do go to the home of you.

2:12
And and and immediately
having taken up the mat he went forth before all so as for to be amazed all and to glorify
the God saying that Thus
never did we see.

2:13
And He went forth again beside the sea,
and all the crowd was coming to Him,
and He was teaching them.

2:14
And passing on He saw Levi the [son] the of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth
and He says to him;
do follow Me.
And having arisen he followed Him.

2:15
And it came to pass in reclining reclining of Him in the house of him,
that many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with the Jesus and with the disciples of Him;
there were for many, and they were following Him.

2:16
And the scribes and of the Pharisees and having seen that he eats with the sinners and tax collectors were saying to the disciples of Him;
Why [is it] that with the tax collectors and sinners He eats

2:17
And having heard the Jesus says to them:
that No need have those being strong of a physician
but those sick being;
Not I came to call [the] righteous
but sinners

2:18
And were the disciples of John and the of the Pharisees fasting
And they come and they say to Him;
Because of why the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast,
the but Your disciples not fast?

2:19
And said to them the Jesus;
Not are able the sons of the bridechamber in which the bridegroom with them is to fast?
As long as time they have the bridegroom with them
not they are able to fast.

2:20
Will come however [the] days
when may have been taken away from them the bridegroom,
and then they will fast in that the day.

2:21
and No [one] a patch of cloth unshrunk sews on clothing old;
lest then except tears away the patch from it the new from the old,
And worse a tear takes place.

2:22
And no [one] puts wine new into wineskins old;
lest then except, will burst the wine the the the wineskins
and the wine is destroyed and the wineskins
will perish; Instead wine new into wineskins new

2:23
And it came to pass He on the Sabbaths passing through through the grainfields,
and the disciples of Him began [their] way to make
plucking the heads of grain.

2:24
And the Pharisees were saying to Him;
Behold why do they in on the Sabbaths that which not is lawful?

2:25
And he himself says
to them; Surely you did read what did
David when need he had and hungered he himself and those with him?

2:26
How he entered into the house the of God in [the days of] Abiathar the
high priest and the loaves of the presentation ate
which not it is lawful to eat only except for the priests,
And he gave even to those with him being?

2:27
And He was saying to them;
The Sabbath on account of the man was made,
and not the man on account of the Sabbath.

2:28
So then Lord is the Son the of Man also even of the Sabbath.

