14:1
It was now the Passover and the [Feast of] Unleavened Bread after two days,
And were seeking the chief priests and the scribes
how Him by stealth having taken they may kill [Him];

14:2
They were saying for; Not [take Him] during the feast
otherwise there will be an uproar of the people.

14:3
And when is being He in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper,
when is reclining He
came a woman having an alabaster flask of fragrant oil of nard pure of great price.
and having broken the alabaster flask she poured [it] on His according to the head.

14:4
Were now some indignant within themselves
and saying: To the the waste this of the fragrant oil has been made?

14:5
Was possible for this the fragrant oil to have been sold [for] above denarii three hundred
and to have been given to the poor;
And they were grumbling at her.

14:6
the And Jesus said;
do leave alone her,
why to her trouble do you cause?
A good work she did toward Me myself.

14:7
Always for the poor you have with yourselves,
and whenever you may desire you are able for them always good to do,
Me myself however not always do you have.

14:8
What she had this
she performed, She came beforehand to anoint the body of Mine for the burial.

14:9
Amen now I say to you;
wherever maybe shall be proclaimed the gospel this in whole the world,
also what has done this [woman] will be spoken of for a memorial of her.

14:10
And the Judas Iscariot, the one of the Twelve, went away to the chief priests
that Him he may betray to them.

14:11
the And having heard they rejoiced
and they promised to him money to give;
And he was seeking how Him conveniently he may deliver up.

14:12
And on the first day the of unleavened [bread], when the Passover lamb they were to sacrifice,
say to Him the disciples of Him;
Where do You desire [that] having gone we may prepare
that You may eat the Passover?

14:13
And He sends forth two of the disciples of Him and says to them;
do go into the city,
and will meet you a man a pitcher of water carrying;
do follow him.

14:14
And wherever maybe he shall enter, do say to the master of the house
that the Teacher says; Where is the guest room of Mine
where the Passover with the disciples of Mine I may eat?

14:15
And he himself you will show an upper room large furnished [and] ready;
And there do prepare for us.

14:16
And went away the disciples
of him and came into the city
and found even as He had said to them
and they prepared the Passover.

14:17
And when evening having arrived
He comes with the Twelve.

14:18
And when were reclining they and were eating
the Jesus said:
Amen I say to you
that one of you will betray Me,
who is eating with Me.

14:19
the They began They began to be grieved and to say to Him one by one;
surely not ever I myself

14:20
the And answering He said to them;
[It is] one of from the Twelve, who is dipping with Me in the one

14:21
For the indeed the Son the of Man goes even as it has been written concerning Him,
woe however to the man that [one] through whom the Son the of Man is betrayed;
better was for him if not was born the man that.

14:22
And when are eating they,
having taken the bread, bread, having spoken a blessing
He broke
and He gave [it] to them and said;
do take do eat this is the body of Me.

14:23
And having taken the cup,
having given thanks He gave [it] to them,
and they drank of it all.

14:24
And He said to them;
This is the blood of Me which [is] the of a new
covenant which is being poured out for many.

14:25
Amen I say to you
that no longer certainly not shall I drink of the fruit of the vine until the day that [one]
when it I may drink anew in the kingdom the of God.

14:26
And having sung a hymn they went out to the Mount the of Olives.

14:27
And says to them the Jesus
that All you will fall away in to me myself
in the night
this for it has been written: I will strike

14:28
But after the to rise me I will go before you into the Galilee.

14:29
the And Peter was saying to Him;
If even all will fall away yet not I myself.

14:30
And says to him the Jesus;
Amen I say to you
that yourself now this in the night
before than twice [the] rooster crowing three times Me you will deny.

14:31
the And overexceedingly he was saying
more: If it shall be needful to me to die with You, certainly not You I will deny.
Likewise now also all of them were saying.

14:32
And they come to a place of which the name [is] Gethsemane,
and He says to the disciples of Him;
do sit here
while I may pray.

14:33
And He takes the Peter and the James and the John with Him
and He began to be greatly awe-struck and to be deeply distressed.

14:34
And He says to them;
Very sorrowful is the soul of Mine until death.
do remain here and do watch.

14:35
And having gone forward a little He was falling upon the ground
and he was praying
that if possible it is it shall pass from Him the hour.

14:36
And He was saying;
Abba, O Father,
all things [are] possible to You; do take away the cup this from Me
but not [it is] what I myself want
but what You.

14:37
And He comes and He finds them sleeping
And He says the to Peter;
Simon,
are you asleep? Surely you were able one hour to watch?

14:38
do watch and do pray
so that not you may enter into temptation.
The indeed spirit [is] willing,
the however the flesh weak.

14:39
And again having gone away He prayed the same thing having said.

14:40
And again having come he found them sleeping;
Were for of them the eyes being wearied,
and not they knew what they may answer to Him.

14:41
And He comes the third time and says to them;
Are you sleeping the still and taking your rest,
It is enough, has come the hour;
behold is delivered up the Son the of Man into the hands of the sinful.

14:42
do rise, let us go;
behold the [one] betraying Me has drawn near!

14:43
And immediately while yet when he is speaking
comes up the Judas, the Iscariot
one being of the Twelve, and with Him a crowd great with swords and clubs the the chief priests and the scribes

14:44
Had given then the [one] delivering up Him a sign to them saying:
Whomever maybe I may kiss, He himself is.
do seize Him and do lead [him] away securely.

14:45
And having arrived immediately
having come up to Him he says
to him:
Rabbi And And he kissed Him.

14:46
They And laid the hands of them on Him and seized Him.

14:47
One then a certain of those having stood by himself drawing the sword struck the servant of the high priest
and cut off of him the ear.

14:48
And answering the Jesus said to them;
As against a robber are you come out with swords and clubs to capture Me?

14:49
Every day I was with you in the temple teaching,
and not you did seize Me;
But [it is] that may be fulfilled the Scriptures.

14:50
And having left Him fled all.

14:51
And one young man certain was accompanying Him
having himself cast a linen cloth about [his] naked [body],
and they seize him

14:52
the and having left behind the linen cloth naked he fled

14:53
And they led away the Jesus to the high priest
And come together to him all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes.

14:54
And the Peter from afar off followed Him until within to the court of the high priest
and he was sitting with the officers
and warming himself at the fire.

14:55
the And the chief priests and all the Council were seeking against the Jesus testimony
to the put to death Him
but not they were finding [any].

14:56
Many for were bearing false testimony against Him,
but alike their testimonies not were.

14:57
And some having risen up were bearing false testimony against Him saying

14:58
that We ourselves heard when he is saying
that I myself will destroy the temple this the [one] made with hands
and in three days another not made with hands I will build.

14:59
And not thus alike was the testimony of them.

14:60
And having stood up the high priest in the midst he questioned the Jesus saying;
Not answer You no [thing]
What [about] these You testify against?

14:61
the But He was silent and not did He answer no [thing].
Again the high priest was questioning Him and he says to Him;
You yourself are the Christ the Son of the Blessed [One]?

14:62
the And Jesus said;
I myself am,
And you will behold the Son the of Man
at [the] right hand sitting the of Power
and coming with the clouds the of heaven.

14:63
the And the high priest having torn the garments of him says;
What any more need have we of witnesses?

14:64
You heard the blasphemy; What to you does it appear?
the And all condemned Him deserving to be of death.

14:65
And began some to spit upon Him
and to cover up of Him the face
and to strike Him
and to say to Him;
do prophesy
And the officers with the palms Him received.

14:66
And when is being the Peter below in the courtyard
comes one of the servant girls of the high priest.

14:67
and having seen the Peter warming himself,
having looked at him she says;
Also you yourself with the Nazarene you were the Jesus.

14:68
the But he denied [it] saying;
Neither I know nor even understand you yourself what say.
And he went forth out into the porch,
and [the] rooster crowed.

14:69
And the servant girl having seen him began again to say to those having been standing by that This [one] of them is.

14:70
the But again he was denying.
And after a little again those having stood by were saying the to Peter;
Truly of them you are;
also for a Galilean you are
and the speech of you resembles.

14:71
the But he began to curse and to swear
that Not I know the man this whom you speak of!

14:72
And immediately for [the] second time a rooster crowed,
And remembered the Peter the declaration [was] like which had said to him the Jesus
that Before [the] rooster crowing twice three times Me you will deny.
And having broken down he was weeping.

