6:1
And He went out from there
and came into the hometown of Him,
and follow Him the disciples of Him.

6:2
And when was becoming [the] Sabbath
He began to teach in the synagogue;
and the many hearing were astonished saying;
From where to this [man] these things,
and what [is] the wisdom which having been given to Him
for even the miracles such through the hands of Him are done?

6:3
Surely this is the carpenter, the son the of Mary
and brother now of James and of Joses and of Judas and of Simon?
And surely are the sisters of Him here with us?
And they were offended by Him.

6:4
And was saying now to them the Jesus
that Not is a prophet without honor only except in the hometown of him
and among the relatives of him
and in the household of him.

6:5
And not He was able there to do not any work of power
only except on a few sick having laid the hands He healed.

6:6
And He was marveling because of the unbelief of them.
And He was going the villages around teaching.

6:7
And He calls near the Twelve
and He began them to send forth two [by] two
and He was gaving to them authority over the spirits the unclean

6:8
And He instructed to them
that nothing they may take for [the] journey only except a staff alone,
no bread nor bag nor in the belt money,

6:9
but having put on yourselves sandals,
and not may put on two tunics.

6:10
And He was saying to them;
Wherever maybe you shall enter into a house,
there do remain
until maybe you may go out from there.

6:11
And whatever maybe place not he may receive you nor may hear you,
departing from there do shake off the dust which [is] under the feet of you for a testimony against them.

6:12
And having gone out they proclaimed
that they may repent,

6:13
And demons many they were casting out
and were anointing with oil many sick
and were healing [them].

6:14
And heard the King Herod;
well known for became the name of Him.
And they were saying
that John the [one] baptizing he has been raised out from [the] dead
and because of this operate the miraculous powers in him.

6:15
Others however were saying
that Elijah He is;
Others now were saying
that A prophet is like like one of the prophets.

6:16
Having heard now the Herod was saying
that: Whom I myself beheaded John — he [it] is

6:17
Himself for the Herod having sent he seized the John
and bound him in the prison on account of Herodias the wife of Philip the brother of him
because her he had married;

6:18
Were saying for the John the to Herod
that Not it is lawful for you to have the wife of the brother of you.

6:19
the And Herodias was holding it against him
and he was wishing him to kill
and not he was able;

6:20
the for Herod was afraid of the John
knowing him [to be] a man righteous and holy
and he was keeping safe him.
And when having heard him much he was perplexed
and gladly him was hearing.

6:21
And when was coming [a] day opportune
when Herod on the birthday of him a banquet made
for the great men of him and for the chief captains and for the leading [men] the of Galilee

6:22
and when was entering the daughter of him the Herodias
and when having danced and she pleased the Herod and those reclining with [him] said the now the king to the girl;
do ask me whatever if you shall wish,
and I will give to you.

6:23
And he swore to her
greatly whatever thing if me you shall ask I will give you until half of the kingdom of mine.

6:24
And the having gone out having gone out she said to the mother of her;
What shall I ask for myself?
the And she said;
The head of John the [one] baptizing.

6:25
And having entered immediately with haste to the king she asked saying;
I desire
that at once may you give to me on a platter the head of John the Baptist.

6:26
And encompassingly sorrowful having been made the king on account of the oaths and those reclining with [him] not was he willing to refuse her.

6:27
And immediately having sent the king an executioner he commanded to be brought the head of him.
the And having gone he beheaded him in the prison

6:28
and brought the head of him on a platter
and gave it to the girl,
and the girl gave it to the mother of her.

6:29
And having heard [it] the disciples of him came
and they took up the body of him
and laid it in the

6:30
And are gathered together the apostles to the Jesus
and they related to him all things and how much they had done and how much they had taught.

6:31
And He speaks to them;
Come you yourselves yourselves apart [your] own to [a] solitary place and do rest a little;
Were for those coming and those going [are] many,
and not even to eat were they able.

6:32
And they went away in the boat into [a] solitary place
on [their] own.

6:33
And they saw them going
the and and recognized him
many and on foot from all the cities ran together there
and went before them

6:34
And having gone out He saw the a great a great crowd
and was moved with compassion toward them
because they were like sheep not having a shepherd.
And He began to teach them many things.

6:35
And already when the hour late being
having come to Him the disciples of Him were saying
that Desolate is the place, and already [it is] an hour late;

6:36
do dismiss them
that having gone to the surrounding region and villages they may buy for themselves something loaves

6:37
the But answering He said to them; to them to them
you yourselves [something] to eat. And they say
to Him; Having gone shall we buy
denarii two hundred of bread and [then] we will give
them [it] to eat?

6:38
the And He says to them;
How many loaves have you do go and do see.
And having known they say;
Five and two fish.

6:39
And He commanded them to recline all
groups [by] groups on the green grass.

6:40
And they sat down groups [by] groups by hundreds and by fifties.

6:41
And having taken the five loaves and the two fish, having looked up to the heaven
He blessed
and He broke the loaves
and He was giving [them] to the disciples of Him
that they may set before them,
And the two fish He divided among all.

6:42
And ate all and were satisfied,

6:43
And they took up of fragments twelve hand-baskets fullness and of the fish.

6:44
And were those having eaten of the loaves about five thousand

6:45
And immediately He compelled the disciples of Him to climb into the boat
and to go before to the other side to Bethsaida
until He himself dismisses the crowd.

6:46
And having taken leave of them He departed into the mountain to pray.

6:47
And when evening having come
was the boat in [the] midst of the sea,
and He himself alone upon the land.

6:48
And seeing them straining in the rowing,
was for the wind contrary to them,
and About [the] fourth watch of the night He comes to them
walking on the sea
and He was wishing to pass by them.

6:49
the And having seen Him on the sea walking they thought that a ghost [it] is,
and cried out;

6:50
All for Him saw
and were troubled.
the now immediately He spoke with them and says to them;
Take courage! I myself am [He], not do fear.

6:51
And He went up to them into the boat,
and ceased the wind.
And exceedingly over excessive in themselves they were amazed

6:52
not for they understood by the loaves,
but were of them the heart hardened.

6:53
And having passed over to the land they came to Gennesaret
and drew to shore.

6:54
And when were exiting they out of the boat immediately having recognized Him

6:55
they ran around all the region that and they began on the
mats those sick being

6:56
And wherever maybe He was entering into villages or into cities or into fields
in the marketplaces they were laying those ailing
and were begging Him
that only of the fringe the clothing of Him they shall touch,
and as many as maybe touched Him were being healed.

