1:1
Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ,
to those who have obtained a faith equal in value to ours through the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:

1:2
May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.

1:3
Seeing that his divine power has granted to us all things
pertaining to life and godliness,
through the knowledge of the one who called us by his own glory and excellence,

1:4
through which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises,
so that through these you may become partakers of the divine nature,
having escaped the corruption that is in the world because of desire.

1:5
And for this very reason, making every effort, supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge,

1:6
and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with endurance, and endurance with godliness,

1:7
and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love.

1:8
For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:9
For whoever lacks these things
is nearsighted and blind,
having forgotten the cleansing of his former sins.

1:10
Therefore, all the more, brothers,
be diligent to make your calling and election sure;
for by doing these things you will never stumble.

1:11
For in this way, entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly provided to you.

1:12
Therefore I intend always to remind you of these things,
even though you know them and are established in the truth that you have.

1:13
And I think it right,
as long as I am in this tent,
to stir you up by way of reminder,

1:14
knowing that the putting off of my tent is imminent, as also our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me.

1:15
And I will also be diligent to make sure that at every moment
after my departure you will be able to recall these things.

1:16
For we did not follow cleverly devised myths
when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ,
but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.

1:17
For he received honor and glory from God the Father
when such a voice was borne to him by the Majestic Glory:
"This is my beloved Son,
with whom I am well pleased"—

1:18
and we ourselves heard this voice borne from heaven
while we were with him on the holy mountain.

1:19
And we have the prophetic word made more sure,
to which you do well to pay attention
as to a lamp shining in a dark place,
until the day dawns
and the morning star rises in your hearts,

1:20
knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from one's own interpretation,

1:21
for no prophecy was ever brought by the will of man,
but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.
