3:1
This is now,
beloved,
the second letter I am writing to you,
in which I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder,

3:2
that you should remember the words spoken beforehand by the holy prophets
and the commandment of the Lord and Savior given through your apostles,

3:3
knowing this first, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing,
walking according to their own desires

3:4
and saying,
"Where is the promise of his coming?
For ever since the fathers fell asleep,
all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation."

3:5
For they deliberately overlook this fact:
that the heavens existed long ago
and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God,

3:6
through which the world that then existed was deluged with water and destroyed.

3:7
But by the same word the present heavens and earth are stored up for fire,
being kept until the day of judgment
and destruction of ungodly men.

3:8
But do not overlook this one thing, beloved,
that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years,
and a thousand years as one day.

3:9
The Lord is not slow concerning his promise,
as some count slowness,
but is patient toward you,
not wishing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance.

3:10
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief,
on which the heavens will pass away with a roar,
and the elements will be dissolved as they burn,
and the earth and the works done on it will be found out.

3:11
Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness,

3:12
waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set ablaze and dissolved,
and the elements will melt as they burn?

3:13
But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth,
in which righteousness dwells.

3:14
Therefore,
beloved,
since you are waiting for these things, be diligent
to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace.

3:15
And count the patience of our Lord as salvation,
just as also our beloved brother Paul,
according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you,

3:16
as he does also in all his letters when he speaks in them
of these matters,
in which there are some things hard to understand,
which the ignorant and unstable twist
as they do also the other Scriptures,
to their own destruction.

3:17
You therefore, beloved,
knowing this beforehand, be on your guard,
so that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability,

3:18
but grow in the grace and knowledge
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
To him be the glory, both now
and to the day of eternity. Amen.
