20:1
And I saw an angel coming down from heaven,
holding the key to the abyss and a great chain in his hand.

20:2
And he seized the dragon, the ancient serpent,
who is the Devil and Satan,
and bound him for a thousand years,

20:3
and threw him into the abyss,
and shut it
and sealed it over him,
so that he would not deceive the nations any longer,
until the thousand years were completed;
after that he must be released for a short time.

20:4
And I saw thrones, and they sat on them,
and judgment was given to them,
and the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God,
and those who had not worshiped the beast or its image
and had not received the mark on their forehead or on their hand;
and they came to life
and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.

20:5
The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed.
This is the first resurrection.

20:6
Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection;
over these the second death has no authority,
but they will be priests of God and of Christ,
and they will reign with him for a thousand years.

20:7
And when the thousand years are completed,
Satan will be released from his prison,

20:8
and he will go out to deceive the nations at the four corners of the earth,
Gog and Magog,
to gather them for battle,
whose number is like the sand of the sea.

20:9
And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth,
and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city.
And fire came down from heaven
and consumed them;

20:10
and the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur,
where the beast and the false prophet are,
and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.

20:11
And I saw a great white throne and the one seated on it,
from whose presence earth and heaven fled away,
and no place was found for them.

20:12
And I saw the dead, the great and the small,
standing before the throne,
and books were opened;
and another book was opened, which is the book of life;
and the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to their works.

20:13
And the sea gave up the dead who were in it,
and Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them,
and each one was judged according to their works.

20:14
And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire.
This is the second death, the lake of fire.

20:15
And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life,
he was thrown into the lake of fire.
