14:1
And I looked, and there was the Lamb standing on Mount Zion,
and with him one hundred forty-four thousand
having his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads.

14:2
And I heard a sound from heaven like the roar of many waters
and like the sound of loud thunder,
and the sound I heard was like harpists playing on their harps.

14:3
And they sing what seemed to be a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders;
and no one could learn the song
except the one hundred forty-four thousand,
who had been redeemed from the earth.

14:4
These are those who have not defiled themselves with women,
for they are virgins;
these follow the Lamb wherever he goes;
these have been redeemed from among humanity as firstfruits for God and for the Lamb,

14:5
and in their mouth no lie was found;
they are blameless.

14:6
And I saw another angel flying in midheaven,
holding an eternal gospel to proclaim
to those who dwell on the earth and to every nation
and tribe
and tongue
and people,

14:7
saying with a loud voice:
Fear God and give him glory,
because the hour of his judgment has come,
and worship the one who made heaven
and the earth and the sea and the springs of water.

14:8
And another angel, a second, followed saying:
Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great,
who made all the nations drink the wine of the fury of her sexual immorality.

14:9
And another angel, a third, followed them saying with a loud voice:
If anyone worships the beast and its image
and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,

14:10
he also will drink the wine of the fury of God
poured full strength into the cup of his wrath,
and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur before the holy angels and before the Lamb.

14:11
And the smoke of their torment rises forever and ever,
and they have no rest day or night,
those who worship the beast and its image,
and whoever receives the mark of its name.

14:12
Here is the endurance of the saints,
those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.

14:13
And I heard a voice from heaven saying:
Write:
Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.
Yes, says the Spirit,
that they may rest from their labors,
for their works follow after them.

14:14
And I looked, and there was a white cloud,
and seated on the cloud one like a son of man,
having on his head a golden crown and in his hand a sharp sickle.

14:15
And another angel came out of the temple
crying with a loud voice to the one seated on the cloud:
Send out your sickle and reap,
because the hour to reap has come,
because the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.

14:16
And the one seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth,
and the earth was reaped.

14:17
And another angel came out of the temple in heaven,
and he also had a sharp sickle.

14:18
And another angel came from the altar, the one who has authority over fire,
and he called with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle saying:
Send out your sharp sickle
and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth,
because her grapes are ripe.

14:19
And the angel swung his sickle over the earth,
and gathered the grape harvest of the earth,
and threw it into the great winepress of the fury of God.

14:20
And the winepress was trampled outside the city,
and blood flowed from the winepress, as high as the bridles of the horses, for a distance of one thousand six hundred stadia.
