9:1
And the fifth angel sounded his trumpet;
and I saw a star that had fallen from heaven to the earth,
and the key to the shaft of the abyss was given to him;


9:2
and he opened the shaft of the abyss,
and smoke rose from the shaft like the smoke of a great furnace,
and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke from the shaft.


9:3
And out of the smoke came locusts onto the earth,
and they were given power like the power that scorpions of the earth have.


9:4
And they were told
not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree,
but only the people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.


9:5
And they were allowed
not to kill them,
but to torment them for five months;
and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion
when it stings a person.


9:6
And in those days people will seek death
and will not find it,
and they will long to die
and death flees from them.


9:7
And the appearance of the locusts was like horses prepared for battle,
and on their heads were what seemed like crowns of gold,
and their faces were like human faces,


9:8
and they had hair like the hair of women,
and their teeth were like the teeth of lions,


9:9
and they had breastplates like breastplates of iron,
and the sound of their wings was like the sound of many horse-drawn chariots rushing into battle;


9:10
and they have tails like scorpions with stingers,
and in their tails is their power to harm people for five months.


9:11
They have over them as king the angel of the abyss;
his name in Hebrew is Abaddon,
and in Greek he has the name Apollyon.


9:12
The first woe has passed;
behold, two more woes are still coming after these things.


9:13
And the sixth angel sounded his trumpet;
and I heard a single voice from the horns of the golden altar that is before God,


9:14
saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet:
Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.


9:15
And the four angels were released,
those prepared for the hour and day and month and year,
to kill a third of humanity.


9:16
And the number of the mounted troops was two hundred million;
I heard their number.


9:17
And this is how I saw the horses in the vision and those seated on them:
they wore breastplates the color of fire and sapphire and sulfur;
and the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions,
and from their mouths poured fire and smoke and sulfur.


9:18
By these three plagues a third of humanity was killed, by the fire and the smoke and the sulfur
coming out of their mouths.


9:19
For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails;
for their tails are like serpents, having heads,
and with them they inflict harm.


9:20
And the rest of humanity
who were not killed by these plagues,
did not repent of the works of their hands,
so as not to worship demons
and the golden and silver and bronze and stone and wooden idols,
which can neither see
nor hear
nor walk,


9:21
and they did not repent of their murders
nor of their sorceries
nor of their sexual immorality
nor of their thefts.
