2:1
To the angel of the church in Ephesus write:
These things says the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand,
the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands:

2:2
I know your works and your toil and your endurance,
and that you cannot tolerate evil people,
and you tested those who call themselves apostles and are not,
and you found them false;

2:3
and you have endurance,
and you bore up for the sake of my name,
and you have not grown weary.

2:4
But I have this against you: you have abandoned your first love.

2:5
Remember therefore from where you have fallen,
and repent
and do the works you did at first;
but if not, I am coming to you
and I will remove your lampstand from its place,
unless you repent.

2:6
But this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.

2:7
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
The one who conquers,
I will give him to eat from the tree of life,
which is in the paradise of God.

2:8
And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write:
These things says the first and the last,
who was dead and came to life:

2:9
I know your tribulation and your poverty— but you are rich—
and the slander from those who say they are Jews
and are not,
but are a synagogue of Satan.

2:10
Do not fear what you are about to suffer.
Look, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison
so that you may be tested,
and you will have tribulation for ten days.
Be faithful unto death,
and I will give you the crown of life.

2:11
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
The one who conquers will never be harmed by the second death.

2:12
And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write:
These things says the one who has the sharp two-edged sword:

2:13
I know where you dwell, where the throne of Satan is,
and you hold fast to my name,
and you did not deny my faith
even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness,
who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.

2:14
But I have a few things against you,
because you have there those who hold the teaching of Balaam,
who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the sons of Israel,
to eat food sacrificed to idols and to practice sexual immorality;

2:15
so also you have those who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans likewise.

2:16
Repent therefore;
but if not, I am coming to you quickly
and I will war against them with the sword of my mouth.

2:17
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
The one who conquers,
I will give him some of the hidden manna,
and I will give him a white stone,
and on the stone a new name written
that no one knows except the one who receives it.

2:18
And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write:
These things says the Son of God,
the one whose eyes are like a flame of fire,
and whose feet are like burnished bronze:

2:19
I know your works and your love and your faith
and your service and your endurance
and that your last works exceed the first.

2:20
But I have this against you:
you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess,
and she teaches and deceives my servants
to practice sexual immorality and eat food sacrificed to idols.

2:21
And I gave her time to repent,
and she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality.

2:22
Look, I am throwing her onto a sickbed,
and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation,
unless they repent of her works;

2:23
and I will strike her children dead;
and all the churches will know
that I am the one who searches minds and hearts,
and I will give to each of you according to your works.

2:24
But to the rest of you in Thyatira I say,
as many as do not hold this teaching,
who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they say—
I am not placing on you any other burden;

2:25
only hold fast what you have until I come.

2:26
And the one who conquers and keeps my works until the end,
I will give him authority over the nations,

2:27
and he will shepherd them with an iron rod
as clay pots are shattered,

2:28
just as I have received from my Father,
and I will give him the morning star.

2:29
The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
