16:1
I commend now to you Phoebe the sister of us
being also a servant of the church the in Cenchrea,

16:2
that her you may receive in [the] Lord worthily the of the saints
and you may assist her
in whatever maybe of you she may need
matter; Also for she a patroness of many has been and of me myself.

16:3
do greet Prisca and Aquila the fellow workers of mine in Christ Jesus —

16:4
who for the life of mine for it their own neck laid down,
whom not I myself only thank
but also all the churches of the Gentiles —

16:5
and the at house of them church.
do greet Epenetus the beloved of mine,
who is a firstfruit the of Asia for Christ.

16:6
do greet Mary, who much toiled for you.

16:7
do greet Andronicus and Junia the kinsmen of mine and fellow prisoners with me,
who are of note among the apostles,
who also before me were in Christ.

16:8
do greet Ampliatus the beloved of mine in [the] Lord.

16:9
do greet Urbanus the fellow worker of us in Christ
and Stachys the beloved of mine.

16:10
do greet Apelles the approved in Christ.
do greet those of the [household] of Aristobulus.

16:11
do greet Herodion the kinsman of mine.
do greet those of the [household] of Narcissus who are being in [the] Lord.

16:12
do greet Tryphena and Tryphosa those toiling in [the] Lord.
do greet Persis the beloved,
who much toiled in [the] Lord.

16:13
do greet Rufus the chosen in [the] Lord and the mother of him and of me.

16:14
do greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes Patrobas, Hermas
and the with them brothers.

16:15
do greet Philologus and Julia,
Nereus and the sister of him
and Olympas
and the with them all saints.

16:16
do greet one another with a kiss holy.
Greet you the churches all the of Christ.

16:17
I exhort now you, brothers,
to watch out for those the divisions and the obstacles contrary to the teaching
that you yourselves have learned
causing and do turn away from them.

16:18
the For such the Lord of us Jesus Christ not serve but the their own belly,
and through the smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.

16:19
The for of you obedience to all has reached;
the Over you therefore I rejoice.
I wish however you wise indeed to be to the good innocent however to the evil.

16:20
The now God the of peace will crush the Satan under the feet of you with speed.
The grace of the Lord of us Jesus Christ [be] with you.

16:21
Greets you Timothy the fellow worker of mine
also Lucius
and Jason
and Sosipater the kinsmen of mine.

16:22
Greet you I myself Tertius the [one] having written down this letter in [the] Lord.

16:23
Greets you Gaius the host of mine and of all the church.
Greets you Erastus the steward of the city and Quartus the brother.

16:24
the grace of the Lord of us Jesus Christ with all of you. Amen.

