1:1
Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:

1:2
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, ⁶Being confident of this very thing,

1:6
that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:

1:7
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.

1:8
For God is my record, how
greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.

1:9
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment; ¹⁰That ye may approve things that are excellent;

1:10
that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of Christ;

1:12
But I would ye should understand,
brethren,
that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel;

1:15
Some indeed even of envy and strife;
preach Christ and some also of good will:

1:16



1:17



1:18
What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached;
and I therein do
rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.

1:19
For
I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, ²⁰According to my earnest expectation and my hope,

1:20
that in nothing I shall be ashamed,
but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.

1:21
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.

1:22
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour:
yet what I shall choose
I wot not.

1:23
For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ;
which is far better:

1:24
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.

1:25
And having this confidence,
I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;

1:26
That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.

1:27
Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs,
that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel; ²⁸And in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of perdition,

1:28
but to you of salvation, and that of God.

1:29
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake; ³⁰Having the same conflict which ye saw in me,

1:30
and now hear to be in me.

