17:1
Having passed through then the Amphipolis and the Apollonia they came to Thessalonica, where was the a synagogue of the Jews.

17:2
According to now the being customary the with Paul he went in to them,
and for Sabbaths three he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,

17:3
opening and setting forth that the Christ it was being necessary to have suffered and to have risen out from [the] dead
and that this is the Christ the Jesus whom I myself preach to you.

17:4
And some of them were obedient
and they joined themselves the to Paul and the to Silas,
the along with worshipping Greeks a multitude great
of women then the leading not a few.

17:5
Having become jealous now the [being] disobedient Jews Jews
and having taken to [them] of the market-loungers men certain wicked
and having collected a crowd
they were setting in uproar the city,
and having assailed the house of Jason they were seeking them to bring out to the people;

17:6
Not having found however them they were dragging the Jason and certain brothers before the city authorities crying out
that The [ones] the world having upset these also here are come,

17:7
whom has received Jason;
And these all contrary to the decrees of Caesar do
king another proclaiming to be Jesus.

17:8
They stirred up then the crowd and the city authorities hearing these things;

17:9
And having taken the security from the Jason and the rest they let go them.

17:10
the And the brothers immediately through the night
sent away the both Paul and the Silas to Berea,
who having arrived into the synagogue of the Jews were going.

17:11
These now were more noble than those in Thessalonica,
who received the word with all readiness
the every day examining the Scriptures if would be these things so.

17:12
Many indeed therefore of them believed,
and of the Grecian women the prominent and men not a few.

17:13
When however knew those from the Thessalonica Jews
that also in the Berea was proclaimed by the Paul the word the of God,
they came there also stirring up and agitating the crowds.

17:14
Immediately also then the Paul sent away the brothers
to go until to the sea;
remained but the both Silas and the Timothy there.

17:15
Those now escorting the Paul brought him unto Athens,
and having received a command unto the Silas and the Timothy that as quickly as possible they may come to him they were departing.

17:16
In now the Athens is waiting for them the Paul was provoked the spirit of him in him
seeing utterly idolatrous to be the city.

17:17
He was reasoning indeed therefore in the synagogue with the Jews and with those worshiping and in the marketplace on every day
with those meeting [him];

17:18
Some then also of the Epicureans and of the Stoics philosophers were encountering him;
And some were saying;
What maybe would intend the babbler this to say?
Others however;
Of foreign gods he seems a proclaimer to be;
because the Jesus and the resurrection to them

17:19
Having taken hold also of him to the Ares Hill they brought [him] saying;
Are we able to know what [is] the new this which by you is spoken teaching?

17:20
Strange things for some you are bringing to the ears of us;
We resolve therefore to know what [things] maybe intends these things to be.

17:21
[The] Athenians now all and the visiting strangers in no [thing] else were spending their time
than to tell something
and to hear something new.

17:22
Having stood then the Paul in [the] midst of the Ares Hill he was saying;
Men Athenians,
in all things as very religious you I behold;

17:23
Passing through for and beholding the objects of worship of you I found even an altar on which had been inscribed:
To an unknown God.
whom therefore not knowing you worship,
Him I myself proclaim to you.

17:24
The God who having made the world and all things that [are] in it,
He of heaven and earth being Lord
not in hand-made temples dwells,

17:25
nor by hands human is He served as needing anything,
Himself giving to all life and breath and the all;

17:26
He made then of one blood every nation of men
to dwell upon all [the] face of the earth,
determining ordered times
and the boundaries of the habitation of them

17:27
to seek the God,
if perhaps indeed they would touch Him and would find [Him],
And indeed not far from one each of us He is.

17:28
In Him for we live
and move
and are,’
As also some of the among you poets have said;
of [Him] For also offspring we are.’

17:29
Offspring therefore being the of God not we ought to consider to gold or to silver or to stone,
a graven thing of craft and imagination of man,
the Divine Being to be like.

17:30
The indeed therefore times the of ignorance having overlooked the God the now He commands the to men all everywhere to repent;

17:31
just as He set a day in which He is about to judge the world in righteousness
by a man whom He appointed
a guarantee having provided to all, having raised Him out from [the] dead.

17:32
Having heard of now a resurrection of [the] dead some indeed were mocking [him],
some however said;
We will hear you concerning this also again.

17:33
and Thus the Paul went out from [the] midst of them.

17:34
Some however men having joined themselves to him believed,
among whom also [were] Dionysius the Areopagite
and a woman named Damaris
and others with them.

