28:1
And having been saved then we found out
that Malta the island is called;

28:2
the And the natives were showing not [just] the ordinary kindness to us;
Having kindled for a fire they received all of us
because of the rain which already coming on and because of the cold.

28:3
When having gathered now the Paul of sticks some quantity
and having laid [them] on the fire
a viper out from the heat having come fastened on the hand of him.

28:4
When then saw the natives hanging the beast from the hand of him,
to one another they were saying:
By all means a murderer is the man this,
whom having been saved from the sea the Justice to live not has permitted.

28:5
The [one] indeed then having shaken off the creature into the fire he suffered no [thing] injurious.

28:6
the But they were expecting him to be about to become inflamed or to fall down suddenly dead;
A while great however when they are waiting and seeing nothing amiss to him happening having changed their opinion they were declaringing him to be a god.

28:7
In now the [parts] around the place that [one] were lands [belonging] to the chief of the island, named Publius,
who having received us three days hospitably entertained [us].

28:8
It came to pass then the father the of Publius with fevers and with dysentery oppressed [was] lying;
to whom the Paul having entered and having prayed,
having laid the hands on him, healed him.

28:9
Of this then having taken place
also the rest the in the island having infirmities were coming
and were healed;

28:10
who also with many honors honored us,
and on setting sail they laid on [us] the [things] for the needs.

28:11
After then three months we set out in a ship having wintered in the island,
Alexandrian, with a figurehead of [the] Dioscuri;

28:12
And having put in at Syracuse we stayed days three,

28:13
from where having taken off we arrived at Rhegium
And after one day when was comong on a south wind
on the second day we came to Puteoli;

28:14
where having found [some] brothers we were entreated with them to remain days seven;
And so to the Rome we came.

28:15
And from there the brothers having heard the [things] concerning us they came out to meet us as far as of Appius [the] market and [the] Three Taverns,
whom having seen the Paul having given thanks the to God took courage.

28:16
When now we came to Rome,
the centurion delivered the prisoners to the
commanders was allowed the Now Paul to stay

28:17
It came to pass then after days three
calling together the he those being of the Jews leaders;
When they were assembling then they
he was saying to them;
I myself,
men brothers
no [thing] against having done the people or against the customs the of our fathers, a prisoner from Jerusalem was delivered into the hands of the Romans,

28:18
who having examined me they were wanting to let [me] go
on account of the not one cause of death existing in me myself;

28:19
When were objecting however the Jews I was compelled to appeal to Caesar
not as if the nation of mine having anything to lay against.

28:20
For this therefore the cause I have called you to see and to speak to [you];
because of for the hope the of Israel the chain this I have around [me].

28:21
the And to him they said;
We ourselves neither letters concerning you received from the Judea,
nor having arrived any of the brothers reported or he said anything concerning you evil.

28:22
We deem it worthy however from you to hear what you think;
concerning truly for the sect this known to us it is
that everywhere it is spoken against.

28:23
Having appointed then to him a day came to him to the lodging many,
to whom he was expounding fully testifying to the kingdom the of God,
persuading then them the concerning the Jesus from both the law of Moses and the Prophets from morning to evening.

28:24
And some indeed were persuaded by the [things] he is speaking,
some however were disbelieving.

28:25
Discordant then being with one another they were leaving
when was speaking the Paul declaration one
that Rightly the Spirit the Holy spoke through Isaiah the prophet to the fathers of you

28:26
he is saying:
do go to the people this
and do say;
In hearing you will hear and certainly not may understand,
and in looking you will look and certainly not may perceive;

28:27
Has grown dull for the heart of the people this,
and with the ears barely they hear
and the eyes of them they have closed;
otherwise they may see with the eyes
and with the ears they may hear
and with the heart they may understand
and may turn
and I will heal them.’

28:28
Known therefore it should be to you
that to the Gentiles has been sent this the salvation the of God,
they themselves then will listen!

28:30
He abided then the Paul whole whole in his own rented house
and was welcoming all those coming unto him

28:31
proclaiming the kingdom the of God
and teaching the [things] concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness unhinderedly.

