2:1
And during the arriving of the day the of Pentecost
they were all together in the one [place].

2:2
And came suddenly out of the heaven a sound
like [the] rushing of a wind violent
and it filled all the house
where they were sitting

2:3
And there appeared to them dividing tongues as of fire
and sat upon one each of them

2:4
And they were filled with all Spirit Holy
and began to speak in other tongues
even as the Spirit was giving to utter forth to them.

2:5
Were now in Jerusalem dwelling Jews, men devout from every nation of those under the heaven.

2:6
When was happening now the sound this came together the multitude
and was confounded,
because was hearing one each in their own language speaking them.

2:7
They were amazed then all and were marveling saying
to one another: behold behold all these are
who are speaking Galileans?

2:8
And how we ourselves hear each in the own language of us
in which we were born?

2:9
Parthians and Medes and Elamites
and those inhabiting the Mesopotamia, Judea also and Cappadocia,
Pontus and the Asia,

2:10
Phrygia both and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts the of Libya that [are] around Cyrene
and those visiting [here] from Rome,

2:11
[11] Cretans and Arabs — [do] we hear
speaking them the in our own tongues the great things the of God?

2:12
Were amazed then all and they were perplexed
other to other saying;
What maybe intends this to be?

2:13
Others however mocking were saying
that Of new wine filled they are.

2:14
Having stood up however the Peter with the eleven he lifted up the voice of him
and spoke forth to them:
Men of Judea and you who [are] inhabiting Jerusalem
all, this to you known should be
and do give heed to the declarations of mine.

2:15
Not for as you yourselves suppose
these are drunkards,
it is for [the] hour third of the day,

2:16
but this is that spoken through the prophet Joel:

2:17
And it will be in the last days,
says the God,
I will pour out of the Spirit of Mine upon all flesh
and will prophesy the sons of you and the daughters of you,
and the young men of you visions will behold
and the elders of you dreams will dream.

2:18
and even upon the servants of Mine and upon the handmaidens of Mine in the days those I will pour out of the Spirit of Mine
and they will prophesy.

2:19
and I will show wonders in the heaven above
and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke.

2:20
The sun will be turned into darkness
and the moon into blood,
before than coming the day of [the] Lord the great and glorious.

2:21
And it will be, everyone who when they shall call upon the name of [the] Lord will be saved.’

2:22
Men Israelites, do hear the words these:
Jesus the of Nazareth, a man
set forth by the God to you by miracles and by wonders and by signs
which did through Him the God in [the] midst of you,
even as also you yourselves know,

2:23
Him by the determined plan and foreknowledge the of God delivered up having taken through hand lawless having crucified You executed,

2:24
whom the God raised up
having loosed the agony the of death,
inasmuch as not it was possible [for] to be held Him by it.

2:25
David for says about Him:
I was foresseeing the Lord before me through all [times],
because at [the] right hand of me He is
that not I may be shaken;

2:26
Because of this was glad the heart of mine
and rejoiced the tongue of mine,
and now also the flesh of mine will dwell in hope.

2:27
for not You will abandon the soul of mine into Hades,
nor will You allow the Holy One of You to see decay.

2:28
You have made known to me [the] paths of life, You will fill me with joy in the presence of You.’

2:29
Men brothers,
it is permitted [me] to speak with freedom to you concerning the patriarch David
that both he died and was buried
and the tomb of him is among us unto the day this.

2:30
A prophet therefore being
and knowing that with an oath swore to him the God out of [the] fruit of the loins of him the according to flesh the the Christ to set

2:31
Having foreseen he spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ
that neither was He left behind the soul
of him into Hades nor the flesh

2:32
This the Jesus has raised up the God,
of which all we ourselves are witnesses.

2:33
To the right hand therefore the of God having been exalted the and the promise of the Spirit the Holy having received from the Father He has poured out this which now you yourselves both are seeing and hearing.

2:34
Not for David ascended into the heavens,
he says however himself:
Said the Lord to the Lord of me;
do sit at [the] right hand of Me,

2:35
until when I may place the enemies of You a footstool of the feet of You.’

2:36
Assuredly therefore should know all [the] house of Israel
that both Lord Him and Christ has made the God — this the Jesus
whom you yourselves crucified.

2:37
Having heard then they were pierced to the heart,
they said then to the Peter and the other apostles;
What shall we do,
men brothers?

2:38
Peter then to them;
do repent
he declared and should be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of the sins of you
and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit;

2:39
To you for is the promise
and to the children of you and to all those at a distance,
as many as maybe may call to Himself [the] Lord the God of us.

2:40
in other And words many he earnestly testified
and was exhorting them saying;
do be saved from the generation the perverse this.

2:41
Those indeed therefore gladly having received the word of him were baptized
and were added on the day that souls about three thousand.

2:42
They were now steadfastly continuing in the teaching of the apostles and the in fellowship,
and in the breaking of the bread and in the prayers.

2:43
There was becoming then upon every soul awe,
many and both wonders and signs through the apostles were taking place.

2:44
All now those believing were together the same
and were having all things in common,

2:45
and the possessions and the goods they were selling
and they were dividing them to all as
would anyone need had;

2:46
Every day and steadfastly continuing with one accord in the temple, breaking then at each house bread they were partaking of food with gladness and sincerity of heart

2:47
praising the God
and having favor with all the people.
the And the Lord was adding those who were being saved
every day to the them.

