27:1
When now was determined the sailing our to the Italy,
they were delivering the both Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion
named Julius of the cohort of Augustus.

27:2
Having boarded then on a ship of Adramyttium
being about to sail to the along the Asia places
we set sail —
while was being with us Aristarchus a Macedonian of Thessalonica.

27:3
On the then next [day] we landed at Sidon,
Considerately then the Julius the Paul was treating he allowed [him]
to the [his] friends may be going care to receive.

27:4
And from there having set sail we sailed under the Cyprus because of the the winds being contrary,

27:5
the And then the along the Cilicia and Pamphylia having sailed across [the sea] we came to Myra the of Lycia.

27:6
And there having found the centurion a ship of Alexandria sailing to the Italy he placed us into it.

27:7
For many now days sailing slowly and with difficulty having arrived off the Cnidus
not is permitting us the wind
we sailed under the Crete off Salmone,

27:8
With difficulty and coasting along it we came to a place certain
being called Fair Havens,
to which near [the] city was of Lasea.

27:9
When much now time having passed
and is being already dangerous the voyage because of the even the Fast already being over,
was admonishing [them] the Paul

27:10
saying to them;
Men,
I understand that with disaster and much loss
not only of the burden and of the ship but also the lives of us
ensuing to be the voyage.

27:11
the But the centurion by the pilot and by the ship owner rather was persuaded
than by the [things] by the Paul

27:12
Unsuitable now the harbor being to winter in
the majority reached a decision to set sail from there,
if somehow they would be able having arrived at Phoenix to winter [there] — a harbor the of Crete
looking toward [the] southwest and toward [the] northwest.

27:13
When was blowing gently now a south wind
having thought the purpose to have obtained,
having weighed [anchor] very near they were coasting along the Crete.

27:14
After not long however it threw down from it a wind tempestuous which is being called [the] Northeaster.

27:15
When was being seized then the ship
and not being able to face to the wind
having given way we were driven along.

27:16
An Island then certain having run under being called Cauda we were able with difficulty control to gain of the lifeboat,

27:17
which having taken up supports they were using
undergirding the ship;
Fearing then lest into the sandbars of Syrtis they may fall
having lowered the gear,
thus they were driven along.

27:18
Violently now being storm-tossed of us on the next [day] a jettison of cargo they were making;

27:19
and on the third [day] with [their] own hands the tackle of the ship they cast away;

27:20
Neither now sun nor stars appearing for many days,
tempest and no small afflicted [us]
from then on was abandoned hope all of being saved us.

27:21
Much also time without food there being
at that time having stood up the Paul in midst of them he said;
It was necessary [for you] indeed,
O men,
having been obedient to me
not to have set sail from the Crete,
to have incurred then the disaster this and the loss.

27:22
And yet the now I exhort you to keep up your courage;
loss for of life none there will be from among you only of the ship.

27:23
Stood by for me this the night the of God
whose am
I myself whom and I serve an angel

27:24
saying;
Not do fear, Paul,
to Caesar you it behooves to stand before,
And behold has granted to you the God all those sailing with you.

27:25
Therefore take courage men;
I believe for the in God that thus it will be according to
the way it has been said to me.

27:26
Upon an island however certain it behooves us to fall.

27:27
When then [the] fourteenth night had come
being driven about of us in the Adriatic,
toward [the] middle of the night were sensing the sailors to be drawing near some to them land;

27:28
And having taken soundings they found fathoms twenty,
A little then having gone farther and again having taken soundings they found fathoms fifteen;

27:29
Fearing then lest perhaps on rocky places we may fall,
out of [the] stern having cast anchors four they were praying for day to come.

27:30
Of the then sailors seeking to flee out of the ship
and having let down the lifeboat into the sea under pretense as from [the] bow anchors
being about to cast out

27:31
said the Paul to the centurion and to the
soldiers; Only unless these

27:32
Then cut away the soldiers the ropes of the lifeboat
and allowed her to fall away.

27:33
Until then that day was about to come,
was urging the Paul all to partake of food saying;
[the] fourteenth today [is] day watching without eating you continue
nothing having taken.

27:34
Therefore I exhort you to partake of food;
this indeed for the of you preservation is;
not [one] for of you a hair of the head will perish.

27:35
Having said now these things and having taken bread he gave thanks the to God before all,
and having broken [it] he began to eat.

27:36
Encouraged then having been all also themselves they took food;

27:37
we were then the altogether souls in the boat two hundred seventy six.

27:38
Having been filled then the with food they were lightening the ship
casting out the wheat into the sea.

27:39
When now day it was,
the land not they were recognizing,
a bay however certain they were noticing
having a shore,
on which they were determining if they would be able, to drive [aground] the ship.

27:40
And the anchors having cut away they were leaving [them] in the sea,
at the same time having loosened the ropes of the rudders
And having hoisted the foresail to the blowing [wind] they were making for the shore.

27:41
Having fallen however into a place between two seas they ran aground the vessel;
and the indeed bow having stuck fast it remained immovable,
the however the stern was being broken up by the violence

27:42
Of the now soldiers [the] plan was
that the prisoners they may kill,
lest anyone having swum away may escape.

27:43
the But the centurion desiring to save the Paul
hindered them of the purpose,
he commanded then those being able to swim having cast [themselves] off first on the land to go out,

27:44
and the rest
some indeed on boards,
some however on things the from the ship.
And thus it came to pass that
all being saved to the land.

