11:1
Heard now the apostles and the brothers those being in the Judea
that also the Gentiles received the word the of God.

11:2
and When also went up Peter to Jerusalem,
were contending with him those of [the] circumcision

11:3
saying
that You entered to men uncircumcision having
and you ate with them.

11:4
having begun now the Peter he was explaining [it] to them in order saying;

11:5
I myself was in [the] city of Joppa praying
and I saw in a trance a vision
descending a vessel certain like a sheet great by four corners being let down out of the heaven,
and it came down as far as me;

11:6
On it having looked intently I was observing [it]
and I saw the quadrupeds of the earth
and the wild beasts
and the creeping things
and the birds of the air.

11:7
I heard then also a voice saying to me;
Having risen up Peter, do kill and do eat.

11:8
I said however; In no way,
Lord;
for every common or unclean nothing ever has entered into the mouth of mine.

11:9
Answered however to me [the] voice for a second [time] out of the heaven;
What the God has cleansed, you yourself not do call unholy.

11:10
This now happened on three times,
and was drawn up again all into the heaven.

11:11
and behold immediately three men stood at the house in which I was
sent from Caesarea to me.

11:12
Told now the Spirit to me to go with them not having discriminated.
Went now with me myself also the six brothers these,
and we entered into the house of the man.

11:13
He related then to us how he had seen the angel in the house of him
having stood and having said
to him: do send forth to Joppa
men and do yourself send for Simon who is called Peter,

11:14
who will speak declarations to you
in which will be saved you yourself and all the household of you.

11:15
In then the beginning me to speak
fell the Spirit the Holy upon them,
even as also upon us in [the] beginning.

11:16
I remembered then the declaration of the Lord, how He was saying:
John indeed baptized with water,
you yourselves however will be baptized with [the] Spirit Holy.

11:17
If then the same gift has given to them the God as also to us
having believed on the Lord Jesus Christ,
I myself now how was able to forbid the God?

11:18
Having heard then these things they were silent
and glorified the God saying;
Then indeed indeed also to the Gentiles the God the repentance unto life has given.

11:19
Those indeed therefore having been scattered by the tribulation the having taken place over Stephen
passed through until Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch
to no one speaking the word only except solely to Jews.

11:20
Were however some of them men of Cyprus and of Cyrene,
who having come into Antioch were speaking also to the Hellenists
evangelising [about] the Lord Jesus.

11:21
And was [the] hand of [the] Lord with them,
[a] great then number which having believed turned to the Lord;

11:22
Was heard now the report in the ears of the church which is being in Jerusalem concerning them
and they sent forth Barnabas to go as far as Antioch;

11:23
who having come and having seen the grace which [is] the of God he rejoiced
and he was exhorting all the with resolute purpose the of heart to abide in the Lord;

11:24
For he was a man good and full of [the] Spirit Holy and of faith.
And was added a crowd large to the Lord.

11:25
He went forth then to Tarsus the to seek to seek Saul,

11:26
and having found him he brought him to Antioch.
It came to pass [that] now they also a year whole gathering together in the church
and teaching a crowd large,
Were calling then first in Antioch the disciples Christians.

11:27
In these now the days came down from Jerusalem prophets to Antioch;

11:28
Having risen up now one of them named Agabus he signified through the Spirit [that] a famine great to ensue being over all the world —
which also was in [the time of] Claudius

11:29
the And the disciples even as was prospered anyone,
determined each of them for ministry to send
to the dwelling in the Judea brothers;

11:30
which also they did having sent [it] to the elders through [the] hand of Barnabas and Saul.

