21:1
After then it happened sailing our having drawn away from them,
having run directly we came to the Cos,
the and the next [day] to the Rhodes, and from there to Patara.

21:2
And having found a boat passing over into Phoenicia having gone on board we set sail.

21:3
Having sighted then the Cyprus and having left it on the left we were sailing to Syria
and we disembarked at Tyre;
There for the ship was unloading the cargo.

21:4
and Having sought out then the disciples we remained there days seven,
who the to Paul were telling through the Spirit
not to go up to Jerusalem.

21:5
When then it happened that we [were] completing the days,
having set out we were journeying
while are accompanying us everyone with wives and children as far as outside the city,
And having bowed the knees on the shore
having prayed

21:6
we greeted one another
and we went up into the boat,
they then returned to the [their] own.

21:7
We ourselves then the voyage having completed from Tyre came down to Ptolemais,
and having greeted the brothers we stayed day one with them.

21:8
On the now next day having gone forth those with the
Paul we came to Caesarea, and having entered into the house of Philip the evangelist
who is being of

21:9
With this [man] now there were daughters four virgins prophesying.

21:10
Remaining now of us days many came down a certain one from the Judea a prophet named Agabus,

21:11
and having come to us
and having taken the belt the of Paul,
having bound both of himself the feet and the hands
he said;
Thus says the Spirit the Holy;
The man of whom is the belt this,
in this way will bind in Jerusalem the Jews
and will deliver [him] into [the] hands of [the] Gentiles.

21:12
When then we had heard these things,
were begging we ourselves both and those of that place
the not to go up him to Jerusalem.

21:13
Then answered the Paul;
What are you doing weeping and breaking my the heart?
I myself for not only to be bound
but also to die at Jerusalem readiness have for the name of the Lord Jesus.

21:14
Not is being persuaded then he
we were silent having said;
Of the Lord the will should be [done].

21:15
After now the days these having packed the baggage we were ascending to Jerusalem.

21:16
Went then also [some] of the disciples from Caesarea with us,
bringing [one] with whom we may lodge, Mnason a certain Cypriot, an early disciple.

21:17
Having arrived now we at Jerusalem gladly received us the brothers.

21:18
On the now following [day] was going in the Paul with us unto James,
all and arrived the elders.

21:19
And having greeted them he was relating by one each
of the things did the God among the Gentiles through the ministry of him.

21:20
Those then having heard were glorifying the God,
They said then to him;
You see brother,
how many myriads there are among the Jews who having believed
and all zealous ones for the law are.

21:21
They have been informed now about you
that apostasy you teach from Moses those among the Gentiles all Jews
telling not to circumcise them the children
nor in the customs to walk.

21:22
What then is it?
Certainly should multitude to assemble

21:23
This therefore do you what to you we say;
There are with us men four a vow having on themselves;

21:24
These [men] having taken do be purified with them
and do bear expense for them
so that they will shave the head,
and will know all that of which they have been informed about you no [thing] is,
but you walk orderly also yourself keeping the law.

21:25
Concerning now those having believed of the Gentiles we ourselves wrote to
having adjudged nothing such
to keep them only except to keep from them the both and and the

21:26
Then the Paul having taken the men on the following day with them having been purified was entering into the temple
declaring the fulfillment of the days of the purification
until that was offered for one each of them the sacrifice.

21:27
When now were about the seven days to be completed,
the from the Asia Jews having seen him in the temple were stirring up all the crowd
and laid upon him the hands

21:28
crying out;
Men Israelites,
do help.
This is the man who against the people and the law
and the place this all those everywhere teaching,
besides and also Greeks he has brought into the temple
and has defiled the holy place this.

21:29
It was they for having foreseen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him,
whom they were supposing that into the temple had brought the Paul.

21:30
Was thrown into commotion also the city whole
and there was a rushing together of the people,
And having laid hold the of Paul they were dragging him outside the temple;
and immediately were shut the doors.

21:31
Of them seeking then him to kill
there came a report to the commander of the cohort
that all are in an uproar Jerusalem;

21:32
who at once having taken with [him] soldiers and centurions ran down upon them.
the And having seen the commander and the soldiers
they stopped beating the Paul.

21:33
Then having drawn near the commander laid hold of him
and he commanded [him] to be bound with chains two
and he was inquiring who maybe he would be and what it is he having done.

21:34
Others however another [or] one thing were crying out in the crowd.
Not is being able now he to know the facts on account of the uproar
he ordered to be brought him into the barracks.

21:35
When now he came to the stairs,
it happened that being carried he by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd;

21:36
Were following for the multitude of the people crying out;
Away with him.

21:37
Being about then to be brought into the barracks the Paul says to the commander;
If is it permitted to me to say something to you?
the Then he was saying;
Greek do you know?

21:38
Surely then you yourself are the Egyptian the before these the days having led a revolt
and having led out into the wilderness the four thousand men of the Assassins?

21:39
Said however the Paul;
I myself a man indeed am a Jew of Tarsus the of Cilicia
not [of an] insignificant city a citizen,
I implore however you;
do allow me to speak to the people.

21:40
When was permitting then he
the Paul having stood on the stairs made a sign with the hand to the people,
great then silence having taken place
he addressed [them] in the Hebrew language saying:

