8:1
Saul now was there consenting to the killing of him.
Arose then on that [very] the day a persecution great against the church which [was] in Jerusalem;
All then were scattered throughout the regions the of Judea and Samaria except the apostles.

8:2
Buried now the Stephen men devout
and they made lamentation great over him.

8:3
Saul however was destroying the church
by the houses entering, dragging off then men and women he was delivering [them] to prison.

8:4
Those indeed therefore having been scattered they went about
evangelising the word.

8:5
Philip now having gone down to the city the of Samaria was proclaiming to them the Christ.

8:6
Were giving heed now the crowds to the [things] being spoken by the Philip
with one accord in the [time] to hear them
and to see the signs that he was performing;

8:7
many for of those having spirits unclean crying voice in a loud were coming out,
many now paralyzed and lame were healed;

8:8
and There was then much joy in the city that.

8:9
A man now certain named Simon was formerly in the city
practicing sorcery and amazing the people the of Samaria
declaring to be someone himself great;

8:10
to whom were giving heed all from small until great saying;
This [one] is the power the of God which is called Great.

8:11
They were giving heed now to him because the long time with the magic arts to have amazed them;

8:12
When however they believed the Philip
evangelising the concerning the kingdom the of God
and the name the of Jesus Christ, they were baptized men both and women.

8:13
the And Simon also himself believed,
and having been baptized he was steadfastly continuing the with Philip,
Beholding then [the] signs and miracles great being performed he was amazed.

8:14
Having heard now the in Jerusalem apostles that has received the Samaria the word the of God, they sent to them the Peter and John;

8:15
who having come down they prayed for them
that they may receive [the] Spirit Holy.

8:16
Not yet for He was upon none of them having fallen,
only however baptized they were being into the name of the Lord Jesus.

8:17
Then they were laying the hands upon them
and they were receiving [the] Spirit Holy.

8:18
having seen now the of Simon that through the laying on of the hands of the apostles was given the Spirit the holy to them to them money

8:19
saying;
do give also to me the authority this,
that on whom when I shall lay the hands
he may receive [the] Spirit Holy.

8:20
Peter however said to him;
The silver of you with you would [that] it be to destruction,
because the gift the of God you thought through money to be obtained!

8:21
No there is to you part nor lot in the matter this;
the for heart of you not is right before the God.

8:22
do repent therefore of the wickedness of yours this
and do pray earnestly to the Lord,
if indeed will be forgiven you the intent of the heart of you.

8:23
in for [the] gall of bitterness and [the] bond of iniquity I see you being.

8:24
Answering now the Simon said;
do pray earnestly you yourselves on behalf of me to the Lord,
so that nothing may come upon me myself of which you have spoken.

8:25
They indeed therefore having earnestly testified and having spoken
the word of the Lord were travelling back to Jerusalem,
to many then villages of the Samaritans they were evangelising.

8:26
An angel now of [the] Lord spoke to Philip saying;
do rise up
and do go toward [the] south
to the road which is going down from Jerusalem to Gaza;
This is [the] desert [road].

8:27
And having risen up he went;
And behold a man an Ethiopian a eunuch a potentate of Candace the queen
of Ethiopians, who was over all the treasure of her,
who had come to then worship to Jerusalem,

8:28
he was then returning
and sitting in the chariot of him
and he was reading the prophet Isaiah.

8:29
Said then the Spirit the to Philip;
do go near
and do be joined to the chariot this [one].

8:30
Having run up then the Philip heard when he is reading Isaiah the prophet
and said;
Surely not also understand you
what you are reading?

8:31
the And he said;
How for maybe would I be able
only unless someone will guide me?
He invited then the Philip having come up to sit with him.

8:32
the Now the passage of the Scripture which he was reading
was this:
As a sheep to slaughter He was led,
and as a lamb before the [one who] shearing him
[is] silent, so not He opens the mouth of Him.

8:33
In the humiliation of Him the justice from Him was taken away,
The now generation of Him who will describe?
For is removed from the earth the life of Him.

8:34
Answering now the eunuch the to Philip said;
I pray you, concerning whom the prophet says this? Concerning himself, or concerning other some?

8:35
Having opened then the Philip the mouth of him and having begun from the Scripture this he evangelised to him [about] the Jesus.

8:36
As then they were going along the road,
they came upon some water
and says the eunuch;
Behold water; what prevents me to be baptized?

8:38
And he commanded to stop the chariot,
And they went down both to the water,
the both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.

8:39
When now they came up out of the water,
[the] Spirit of [the] Lord carried away the Philip,
and not saw him no longer the eunuch;
he was going for the way of him rejoicing.

8:40
Philip however was found at Azotus,
and passing through he was evangelising to the towns all
until the coming of him to Caesarea.

