14:1
It came to pass now in Iconium according to the same entering they into the synagogue of the Jews
and speaking so
that to believe of Jews both and Greeks a great number.

14:2
The however disobeying Jews
stirred up
and they poisoned the minds of the Gentiles against the brothers.

14:3
A long indeed therefore time they stayed
speaking boldly about the Lord
who is bearing witness to the word of the grace of Him, and granting signs and wonders to be done through the hands of them.

14:4
Was divided now the multitude of the city,
and some indeed were with the Jews,
some however with the apostles.

14:5
When then there was a rush of the Gentiles both and Jews with the rulers of them
to mistreat and to stone them,

14:6
having become aware they fled to the cities the of Lycaonia,
Lystra and Derbe and the surrounding region,

14:7
and there evangelising they were continuing.

14:8
And a certain man crippled in Lystra in the feet was sitting,
lame from [the] womb of [the] mother of him
being who never walked.

14:9
This [man] heard the Paul speaking,
who having looked intently at him and having seen that he has faith the to be healed,

14:10
said in a loud the
voice; do stand on the feet of you upright!
And he sprang up
and was walking.

14:11
the And the crowds having seen what did the Paul
lifted up the voice of them in Lycaonian saying;
The gods having become like as men have come down to us;

14:12
They were calling then the one Barnabas Zeus,
the other Paul Hermes,
because he himself was the leading the speaker.

14:13
the And the priest the of Zeus who is being just outside the city of them oxen and wreaths to the gates having brought with the crowds was desiring to sacrifice.

14:14
Having heard however the apostles Barnabas and Paul having torn the garments of them rushed out into the crowd crying out

14:15
and
saying; Men, these things these things do you?
Also we ourselves of like nature are with you men,
evangelising to you from these the vanities to turn to the God who is living,
who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all the [things] in them,

14:16
who in the having past generations allowed all the nations to go in the ways of them;

14:17
and yet not without witness Himself He has left doing good,
from heaven to you rains giving and seasons fruitful,
filling with food and gladness the hearts of you.

14:18
And these things saying
hardly they stopped the crowds the not sacrificing to them.

14:19
Came however from Antioch and Iconium Jews,
and having persuaded the crowds and having stoned the Paul they were dragging [him] outside the city
supposing him to have died.

14:20
When were sorrounding however the disciples him having risen up he entered into the city
And on the next day he went away with the Barnabas to Derbe.

14:21
Having evangelised then the city that
and having discipled many they returned to the Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch;

14:22
strengthening the souls of the disciples,
exhorting [them] to continue in the faith
and that through many tribulations it behooves us to enter into the kingdom the of God.

14:23
Having chosen now for them in every church elders, having prayed with fasting they committed them to the Lord in whom they had believed.

14:24
And having passed through the Pisidia they came to the Pamphylia,

14:25
and having spoken in Perga the word they went down to Attalia;

14:26
And from there they sailed to Antioch,
from where they had committed to the grace the of God for the work that they had fulfilled.

14:27
Having arrived now and having gathered together the church they were declaring how much did the God with them
and that He had opened to the Gentiles a door of faith.

14:28
They were remaining then there time no little with the disciples.

