20:1
After now the ceasing the uproar
having summoned [him] the Paul the disciples and having encouraged having said farewell he departed to go to the

20:2
Having passed through then the districts those and having exhorted them with talk much he came to the Greece;

20:3
Having continued then months three,
having been made a plot against him by the Jews
he being about to sail into the Syria,
arose a purpose the to return through Macedonia.

20:4
Was accompanied by then him until the Asia
Sopater [son] of Pyrrhus a Berean, of the Thessalonians now
Aristarchus and Secundus and of Derbe of Derbe and Timothy;
[the] Asians now Tychicus and Trophimus,

20:5
These also having gone ahead were awaiting us in Troas;

20:6
We ourselves then sailed away after the days of the Unleavened Bread from Philippi
and we came to them at the Troas within days five
where we stayed days seven.

20:7
In then the first [day] of the week come together we disciples for the of bread of bread
the Paul was talking to them
about to depart on the next day
he was continuing then the talk until midnight;

20:8
There were now lamps many in the upper room
where we were assembled.

20:9
sitting then a certain young man named Eutychus
by the window,
overpowered by sleep deep
as is talking the Paul on longer,
having been overpowered by the sleep
he fell from the third story down
and was picked up dead.

20:10
Having descended however the Paul fell upon him
and having embraced [him] said;
Not do be alarmed;
the for life of him in him is.

20:11
Having gone up then and having broken the bread and having eaten, for long and having talked until daybreak, so he departed.

20:12
They brought then the boy alive
and were comforted not a little.

20:13
We ourselves however having gone ahead to the ship sailed to the Assos,
there being about to take in the Paul;
Thus for having arranged himself he was
readying himself to go on foot.

20:14
When now he was meeting with us at the Assos,
having taken in him we came to Mitylene;

20:15
And from there having sailed away on the following [day] we arrived opposite Chios,
on the then next [day] we arrived at Samos
and await in Trogyllium on the and

20:16
Had decided for the Paul to sail by the Ephesus,
so that not it may happen to him to spend time in the Asia; he was hastened
for if possible it would be for him
on the day the of Pentecost to be in Jerusalem.

20:17
From then the Miletus having sent to Ephesus he called for the elders of the church.

20:18
When then they had come to him
he said to them;
You yourselves know from [the] first day
on which I arrived in the Asia
how with you the whole time I was

20:19
serving the Lord
with all humility
and many
tears and trials
that were happening to me in the plots of the Jews;

20:20
how no [thing] I did shrink back of that being profitable
the not to declare to you
and to teach you publicly and from house to house,

20:21
earnestly testifying to Jews both and to Greeks the in the God repentance
and faith the in the Lord of us Jesus

20:22
And now behold bound I myself in the Spirit go to Jerusalem
what in it will happen to me not knowing,

20:23
except that the Spirit the Holy in every city fully testifies to me
saying
that chains and tribulations me await.

20:24
But not of any account I make nor the the life of mine dear to myself,
so as to finish the course of mine with and and the ministry
that I received from the Lord Jesus,
to testify fully the gospel of the grace the of God.

20:25
And now behold I myself know that no longer you will behold the face of me you yourselves all
among whom I have gone about
proclaiming the kingdom

20:26
therefore I testify to you in the this day
that innocent I am of the blood of all;

20:27
not for I shrunk back the not [from] declaring all the counsel the of God to you.

20:28
do take heed therefore to yourselves and to all the flock
among which you the Spirit the Holy has set overseers,
to shepherd the church of the Lord God, God,
which He purchased with the blood the own.

20:29
I myself for know this that will come in after the departure of mine wolves grievous among you
not sparing the flock,

20:30
and out from your own selves will rise up men
speaking perverted [things]
such that to draw away the disciples after them.

20:31
Therefore do watch remembering
that three years night and day not I ceased with tears admonishing one each.

20:32
And the now I commit you brothers the to God
and to the word of the grace of Him, who is being able to build [it]
and to give to you the inheritance among those sanctified all.

20:33
Silver or gold or clothing of no [one] I coveted;

20:34
You yourselves now know that to the needs of me and to that [of those] being with me
ministered to the hands these.

20:35
In everything I showed you
that by thus straining it behooves [us] to aid those being weak, to remember and also the words of the Lord Jesus,
how He Himself said; Blessed it is more to give than to receive.

20:36
And these things having said having bowed the knee of him with all them he prayed.

20:37
Much then weeping there was among all,
and having fallen upon the neck the of Paul they were kissing him,

20:38
sorrowing especially over the word that he had spoken
that no longer they are about the face of him to see.
They were accompanying then him to the ship.

