25:1
Festus therefore having arrived in the province after three days he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea,

25:2
Made a presentation then before him the chief priests and the chiefs of the Jews against the Paul
and they were begging him

25:3
asking a favor against him, that he may summon him to Jerusalem,
an ambush forming to execute him on the way.

25:4
the Indeed therefore Festus answered that is to be kept the Paul
in Caesarea, he himself however ensuing with speed to set out;

25:5
Those therefore among you he says [in] power having gone down too, if anything there is in the man wrong,
they should accuse him.

25:6
Having spent then with them days not more than eight or ten,
having gone down to Caesarea, on the next day having sat on the judgment seat he commanded the Paul to be brought.

25:7
When was arriving then he
they stood around him the from Jerusalem having come down
Jews many and weighty charges presenting
concerning the Paul which

25:8
the Paul was presenting a defense
of him that Neither [I sinned] against the law of the Jews
nor [I sinned] against the temple
nor against Caesar [in] anything have I sinned.

25:9
the Festus however wishing from the Jews a favor to lay,
answering the Paul said;
Are you willing to Jerusalem having gone up there concerning these things to be judged before me?

25:10
Said then the Paul;
Before the judgment seat of Caesar standing I am,
where me it behooves to be judged.
To [the] Jews no [thing] I have done wrong, as also you yourself very well know;

25:11
If indeed therefore I do wrong
and worthy of death have done anything,
not I do refuse the to die;
If however no [thing] there is
of which they [can] accuse me,
no [one] me can to them giving up.
To Caesar I appeal!

25:12
Then the Festus having conferred with the Council answered;
To Caesar You have appealed,
to Caesar you will go!

25:13
When days now having passed some
Agrippa the king and Bernice came down to Caesarea
greeting the Festus.

25:14
As now many days they were staying there,
the Festus to the king laid before the [things] relating to the Paul saying;
A man certain there is left by Felix [as] a prisoner,

25:15
concerning whom having been of me in Jerusalem made a presentation the chief priests and the elders of the Jews
asking against him penalty;

25:16
to whom I answered
that not it is [the] custom with Romans
to give up any man
into before before than the [one] being accused to face he would be [able] the accusers
[the] opportunity and of defense he would have concerning the accusation.

25:17
When were assembling therefore they here delay no having made, on the next [day] having sat on the judgment seat I commanded to be brought the man;

25:18
concerning whom having stood up the accusers no charge were bringing
of which I myself was suspect crimes;

25:19
Questions however certain concerning the own religion they had against him
and concerning a certain Jesus having died
whom was affirming the Paul to be alive.

25:20
Being perplexed now I myself into the concerning these inquiry was asking if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem and there to be judged concerning these things.

25:21
the But Paul having appealed for to be kept himself for the the Emperor's decision
I commanded to be kept him
until that I may return him to Caesar.

25:22
Agrippa then to the Festus
was saying: I was wanting also myself the man to hear.
the now Tomorrow he says

25:23
On the therefore next day when was coming the Agrippa and the Bernice with great pomp
and having entered into the audience hall with both to the
commanders and to men who in prominence being in the city
and when was commanding the Festus
was brought in the Paul.

25:24
And says the Festus;
Agrippa King and all you who [are] being present with us men, you see this one
concerning whom all the multitude of the Jews they pleaded with me in both Jerusalem and here
crying [that] not needing of him to live no longer.

25:25
I myself however having grasped nothing worthy him of death to have done,
and himself and of this one having appealed to the Emperor
I determined to send

25:26
concerning whom definite anything to write the to [my] lord
not I have,
Therefore I have brought him before you all and especially before you, King Agrippa,
so that when the examination having taken place
I may have something I may write;

25:27
Absurd for to me it seems [in] sending a prisoner
not also the against him charges to specify.

