19:1
It came to pass now while the the Apollos being in Corinth,
Paul having passed through the upper parts to come down to Ephesus
and finding certain disciples

19:2
he said also to them;
If [the] Spirit Holy did you receive having believed?
the And they said to him;
But not even that [a] Spirit Holy there is did we hear.

19:3
He said then
to them: Into then then were you baptized?
the And they said; Into the John's baptism.

19:4
Said then Paul;
John indeed baptized a baptism
of repentance to the people telling about the [One] coming after him
that they may believe, That is in the Christ Jesus.

19:5
Having heard then they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus;

19:6
And when was laying on them the Paul the hands came the Spirit the Holy upon them,
they were speaking then in tongues
and were prophesying.

19:7
There were then the in all men about twelve.

19:8
Having entered then into the synagogue he was speaking boldly for months three
reasoning and persuading the concerning the kingdom the of God.

19:9
When however some were hardened and they were disbelieving
speaking evil of the Way before the multitude,
having departed from them he took separately the disciples
every day reasoning in the lecture hall of Tyrannus

19:10
This then continued for years two,
so that all those inhabiting the Asia hearing the word of the Lord Jesus Jews both and Greeks.

19:11
Miracles then not the being ordinary the God was doing through the hands of Paul,

19:12
so that even to the ailing carrying from the skin of him
handkerchiefs or aprons
and departing from them the diseases
the also spirits the evil coming out

19:13
Attempted now some of also of the itinerant Jewish exorcists
to invoke over those having the spirits the evil
the name of the Lord Jesus saying;
I adjure you the [by] Jesus whom the Paul proclaims.

19:14
They were now of a certain of Sceva a Jewish a high priest seven the sons this were doing.

19:15
Answering however the spirit the evil said to them:
the indeed Jesus I know
and the Paul I am acquainted with;
you yourselves however who are you?

19:16
And having leapt the man upon them in whom was the spirit the evil,
and having overpowered them all he prevailed against them
so that naked and wounded fleeing out of the house that.

19:17
This now became known to all Jews both also to Greeks
who inhabiting the Ephesus
and fell fear upon all them
and was being magnified the name of the Lord Jesus,

19:18
Many then of those having believed were coming
confessing and declaring the deeds of them.

19:19
Many now of those the magic arts having practiced having brought together the books were burning [them] before all;
And they counted up the prices of them
and found [it] of silverlings myriads five.

19:20
thus with might of the Lord the word was continuing to increase and was prevailing.

19:21
After now were fulfilled these things,
purposed the Paul in the Spirit
having passed through the Macedonia and Achaia to go to Jerusalem
having said
that After the being me there, it behooves me also Rome to see.

19:22
Having sent then into the Macedonia two of those ministering to him,
Timothy and Erastus,
he himself remained for a time in the Asia.

19:23
Arose now at the time same a disturbance not small concerning the Way.

19:24
Demetrius for a certain [man] named, a silversmith
making shrines silver of Artemis, was bringing to the craftsmen no little business

19:25
whom having brought together also the in such things Workmen he said;
Men,
you know that from this the business the wealth of us is,

19:26
And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but almost in all the of Asia
the Paul this having persuaded [them] he has turned away a great many people
saying
that not they are gods the through hands being made.

19:27
Not only but this is endangered to us the business into disrepute to come
but also the of the great goddess Artemis temple as no [thing] to be reckoned,
to be and also deposing the majesty of her
whom all the Asia and the world worship.

19:28
Having heard then and having become full of rage they were crying out saying;
Great [is] the Artemis of [the] Ephesians.

19:29
And was filled the city all the with confusion;
they rushed and with one accord to the theatre
having dragged off Gaius and Aristarchus Macedonians, fellow travelers the

19:30
the Paul however intending to go in to the people
not were allowing him the disciples;

19:31
Some then also of the Asiarchs being to him friends, having sent to him they were urging [him]
not to venture himself into the theatre.

19:32
Others indeed therefore some thing were crying out;
was for the assembly confused,
and the most not did know for what cause they had assembled.

19:33
Out of now the crowd brought forward Alexander
when were thrusting forward him the Jews;
the And Alexander having motioned with the hand was wanting to present a defense to the people.

19:34
Having recognized however that a Jew he is, a cry there was one from all about ongoing hours two crying out;
Great [is] the Artemis of [the] Ephesians.

19:35
having calmed then the town clerk the crowd he says;
Men Ephesians,
who for is there of men
who not knows the of [the] Ephesians city temple-keeper as being of the great goddess Artemis and of that fallen from the sky?

19:36
Undeniable therefore are being these things
necessary it is for you quietened to be and nothing rash to do.

19:37
You brought for the men these
neither temple plunderers
nor blaspheming the goddess of us.

19:38
If indeed therefore Demetrius and the with him craftsmen have against anyone a matter
courts are conducted
and proconsuls there are;
they should accuse to one another.

19:39
If however anything beyond this you inquire,
in the lawful assembly it will be solved.

19:40
And for we are in danger of being accused of insurrection in regard to the this day
not one cause there is existing
concerning which not we will be able to render a reason for the commotion this.


