18:1
And after now these things having departed the from from the Athens he came to Corinth,

18:2
And having found a certain Jew named Aquila, of Pontus the a native,
recently having come from the Italy, and Priscilla wife of him,
because of the to have commanded Claudius to depart all the Jews out of the Rome,
he came to them;

18:3
and due to of the same trade being he was staying with them and he was working;
they were for tentmakers the by trade;

18:4
he was reasoning now in the synagogue on every Sabbath,
was persuading both Jews and Greeks.

18:5
When now came down from the Macedonia the both Silas and the Timothy,
was occupied with the word the Paul
earnestly testifying to the Jews to be the Christ Jesus.

18:6
When are opposing however they and denigrating [him],
having shaken out the garments he said to them;
The blood of You [be] upon the head of you,
clean I myself [am];
From the now on to the Gentiles I will go.

18:7
And having departed from there he entered to [the] house of a certain one named Titius Justus
worshiping the God,
of whom the house was adjoining to the synagogue.

18:8
Crispus now the ruler of the synagogue believed in the Lord with all the household of him,
And many of the Corinthians hearing were believing
and were baptized.

18:9
Said now the Lord in [the] night through a vision the to Paul;
Not do fear
but do continue speaking and not may be silent,

18:10
because I myself am with you,
and no [one] will lay a hand on you the to harm you;
because people there is to me many in the city this;

18:11
He remained now a year and months six
teaching among them the word the of God.

18:12
When Gallio however proconsul being the of Achaia
rose up with one accord the Jews the against Paul
and led him to the judgment seat,

18:13
saying
that Contrary to the law persuades this [man] the men to worship the God.

18:14
When is being about to now the Paul to open the [his] mouth
said the Gallio to the Jews;
If indeed therefore it was unrighteousness some or crime wicked,
O Jews,
according to reason would I have endured with you;

18:15
if however questions it is about a word and names and law the of yours,
you will behold [to it] yourselves;
a judge for I myself of these things not resolve to be.

18:16
And he drove them from the judgment seat.

18:17
Having seized then all [of them] the Greeks the the ruler of the synagogue they were beating [him] before the judgment seat;
And no [thing] about these things the to Gallio was concerning.

18:18
the Now Paul more having remained days many, of the brothers having taken leave he was sailing away to the Syria —
and with him Priscilla and Aquila —
having shaved in Cenchrea the head; he had for a vow.

18:19
They came now to Ephesus;
and them left there,
He himself then having entered into the synagogue he reasoned with the Jews.

18:20
When are asking now they for [him] a longer time to remain
with not not he did consent;

18:21
but having taken leave and to them
having said necessary me by all means the feast which
is coming to do into Jerusalem;

18:22
and having landed at Caesarea, having gone up and having greeted the church he went down to Antioch;

18:23
And having stayed time some he went forth
passing through successively the Galatian region and Phrygia,
strengthening all the disciples.

18:24
A Jew now certain Apollos named, of Alexandria the a native,
a man eloquent,
came to Ephesus
mighty being in the Scriptures.

18:25
He was instructed [in] the way of the Lord,
And being fervent the in spirit he was speaking and he was teaching earnestly the [things] concerning the Jesus
knowing only the baptism of John;

18:26
He then began to speak boldly in the synagogue.
Having heard however him Priscilla and Aquila they took to [them] him
and more accurately to him they expounded the way the of God.

18:27
When is resolving then he to pass through into the Achaia,
having encouraged [him] the brothers wrote to the disciples to welcome him;
who having arrived he helped greatly those having believed through the grace;

18:28
Powerfully for the Jews he was refuting publicly
showing through the Scriptures to be the Christ Jesus.

