15:1
And certain ones having come down from the Judea were teaching the brothers
that Only unless you shall become circumcised according to the custom the of Moses,
[then] not you are able to be saved.

15:2
When was hapening then commotion and controversy no small the by Paul and the Barnabas with them
they appointed to go up Paul and Barnabas and certain others out from them
to the apostles and elders
to Jerusalem
about the question this.

15:3
They indeed therefore having been sent forward by the church
were passing through the both Phoenicia and Samaria
relating in detail the conversion of the Gentiles
and they were bringing joy great to all the brothers.

15:4
Having come then to Jerusalem they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders,
They declared then how much the God did with them.

15:5
Rose up now certain of those of the sect of the Pharisees having believed
saying
that It is necessary to circumcise them
to command [them] then to keep the law of Moses.

15:6
Were gathered together then the apostles and the elders to understand about the matter this.

15:7
Of much now controversy having taken place,
having risen up Peter said to them;
Men brothers,
you yourselves know that from days early among you chose the God
through the mouth of mine to hear the Gentiles the word of the gospel and to believe.

15:8
And the heart-knowing God bore witness to them
having given to them the Spirit the Holy even as also to us;

15:9
and no [thing] He made distinction between us also and them
by the faith having purified the hearts of them.

15:10
Now therefore why are you testing the God
to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples
that neither the fathers of us nor we ourselves were able to bear?

15:11
But through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we believe to be saved
in [the] same manner [as] they also.

15:12
Kept silent now all the multitude
and were listening to Barnabas and Paul relating
how much did the God signs and wonders among the Gentiles through them.

15:13
After now the being silent they answered James saying;
Men brothers,
do hear me.

15:14
Simeon has related
even as first the God visited to take out of [the] Gentiles a people upon for the name of Him;

15:15
And with this agree the words of the prophets
even as it has been written:

15:16
After these things I will return
and will rebuild the tabernacle of David which having fallen
and the ruined of it I will rebuild
and I will set upright it;

15:17
so that when may seek out the remnant the of men the Lord
and all the Gentiles, upon whom has been called the name of Me upon them,
says [the] Lord who is doing these things

15:18
known from eternity’

15:19
Therefore I myself judge
not to trouble those who from the Gentiles are turning to the God,

15:20
but to write to them the to abstain from from the pollutions of the idols and the sexual immorality and that which is strangled and the from blood.

15:21
Moses for from generations of old in every city those proclaiming him he is
in the synagogues on every Sabbath being read.

15:22
Then it seemed good to the apostles and to the elders with all the church
having chosen men out from them to send to Antioch with the Paul and Barnabas,
Judas who is being called Barsabbas and Silas,
men leading among the brothers,

15:23
having written through [the] hand of them
these things: The apostles and the elders and brothers brothers
To those in the Antioch and Syria and Cilicia to brothers the among the Gentiles Greeting.

15:24
Inasmuch as we have heard that some from us went out troubled you by words
upsetting the minds of you
saying to be circumcised and

15:25
it seemed good to us having come with one accord
having chosen men to send to you with the beloved of us Barnabas and Paul,

15:26
men having handed over the lives of them for the name of the Lord of us Jesus Christ.

15:27
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas,
and they through word [of mouth] are telling [you] the same things.

15:28
It seemed good for to the Spirit the Holy and to us
no further to lay upon you burden except these the necessary things

15:29
to abstain from idol-sacrifices and from blood and from a strangled [one] and from sexual immorality;
From these keeping yourselves well you will do.
Farewell!

15:30
They indeed therefore having been sent off went to Antioch,
and having gathered the multitude they delivered the letter.

15:31
Having read [it] now they rejoiced at the encouragement.

15:32
Judas both and Silas, also themselves prophets being, through talk much exhorted the brothers and strengthened [them].

15:33
Having continued then a time they were sent away in peace from the brothers
to those having sent them.

15:35
Paul however and Barnabas were staying in Antioch
teaching and evangelising with also others many the word of the Lord.

15:36
After now some days said to Barnabas Paul;
Having turned back indeed let us look after the brothers of us in city every
in which we have announced the word of the Lord,
how they are.

15:37
Barnabas now was planning to take along also the John who is being called Mark;

15:38
Paul however was considering
the [one] having withdrawn from them from Pamphylia
and not having gone with them to the work not to take along him.

15:39
Arose therefore a sharp disagreement, so that separating they from one another,
the and Barnabas having taken the Mark sailing to Cyprus.

15:40
Paul however having chosen Silas went forth
having been committed to the grace of the Lord by the brothers.

15:41
He was passing through then the Syria and the Cilicia
strengthening the churches.

