16:1
He came then both to Derbe and to Lystra.
And behold a disciple certain was there,
named Timothy,
[the] son of a woman certain Jewish believing,
father however a Greek;

16:2
who was well spoken of by the in Lystra and Iconium brothers.

16:3
This one wanted the Paul with him to go forth,
and having taken he circumcised him on account of the Jews
those being in the parts those;
they knew for all that a Greek the father of him was.

16:4
While then they were passing through the cities,
they were delivering to them to keep the decrees which [were] decided on by the apostles and of the elders who [were] in Jerusalem.

16:5
The indeed therefore churches were strengthened in the faith
and were increasing the in number every day.

16:6
they passed through then the Phrygia and the Galatian region
having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in the Asia,

16:7
having come then down to the Mysia they were attempting into the Bithynia to go,
and not did allow them the Spirit of Jesus.

16:8
having passed by then the Mysia they came down to Troas.

16:9
And a vision during the night the to Paul appeared:
A man of Macedonia certain was already standing
and beseeching him
and saying;
Having passed over into Macedonia do help us.

16:10
When now the vision he had seen,
immediately we sought to go forth to the
Macedonia concluding that he has called us the God to evangelise to them.

16:11
Having sailed then from the Troas we made a straight course to Samothrace,
the and the following day to Nea Polis,

16:12
and from there to Philippi, which is [the] leading [city] of the district the of Macedonia [the] city,
[and Roman] colony. We were now in this the city staying days some.

16:13
On the then day of the Sabbaths we went forth outside the gate by a river
where we were accustomed prayer to have,
And having sat down we were speaking to those having gathered women.

16:14
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of [the] city of Thyatira worshiping the God, was listening
of whom the Lord opened the heart to attend to the [things] being spoken by the Paul.

16:15
When then she was baptized
and the house of her, she begged saying;
If you have judged me faithful to the Lord to be, having entered into the house of mine do remain;
And she persuaded us.

16:16
It happened now going of us to the [place of] prayer,
a girl certain having a spirit Python meeting by us,
who gain much was bringing the masters of her by fortune-telling.

16:17
She having followed the after Paul and us was crying out saying;
These the men servants of the God the Most High are,
who proclaim to you [the] way of salvation.

16:18
This then she was continuing for many days.
Having been distressed then the Paul and having turned to the spirit he said;
I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out from her.
And it came out on [the] same the hour.

16:19
Having seen now the masters of her that was gone the hope of the profit of them, having taken hold of the Paul and the Silas they dragged [them] into the marketplace before the rulers,

16:20
and having brought up them to the magistrates they said;
These the men exceedingly trouble of us the city
Jews being;

16:21
and preach customs
that not it is lawful for us to accept nor to practice
Romans being.

16:22
And rose up together the crowd against them,
and the magistrates having torn off of them the garments were commanding to beat with rods;

16:23
Many then having laid on them blows they cast [them] into prison
having charged the to jailer strictly to keep them;

16:24
who an order such having received threw them into the inner prison
and the feet fastened of them in the stocks.

16:25
Toward now the midnight Paul and Silas praying they were singing praises to the God;
Were listening now to them the prisoners.

16:26
Suddenly then earthquake there was a great so that shaking the foundations of the prison house;
were opened then immediately the doors all,
and of all the chains were loosed.

16:27
Awoken then having been the jailer and was seeing having opened the doors of the prison, having drawn the [his] sword he was about himself to execute
supposing to have escaped the prisoners.

16:28
Called out however in a loud voice the Paul saying;
Not may do to yourself harm;
all for we are here.

16:29
Having called for now lights he rushed in
and terrified having become he fell down before the Paul and the Silas,

16:30
And having brought them out he was saying;
Sirs,
what of me is necessary to do that I may be saved?

16:31
the And they said;
do believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and will be saved you yourself and the household of you.

16:32
And they spoke to him the word of the Lord along with all those in the house of him.

16:33
And having taken them in that [very] the hour of the night he washed [them] from the wounds,
and he was baptized he himself and the [household] of him all immediately.

16:34
Having brought then them into the house of him he laid
a table [for them] and rejoiced with all [his] household
having believed the in God.

16:35
When day then having come
sent the magistrates the officers saying;
do release the men those.

16:36
Reported then the jailer the words these to the Paul
that Have sent the captains
that you may be let go;
Now therefore having gone out do depart in peace.

16:37
the But Paul was saying to them;
Having beaten us publicly uncondemned men Romans being, they cast [us] into prison,
and now secretly us do they throw out? No indeed!
Instead having come themselves us they should bring out.

16:38
Reported then to the magistrates the officers the declarations these;
and
They were afraid then having heard that Romans they are,

16:39
And having come they appealed to them
and having brought [them] out they were asking [them] to go out of the city.

16:40
Having gone forth then out of the prison they came to the Lydia;
and having seen [them] they exhorted the brothers
them and departed.

