10:1
A man now certain was in Caesarea named Cornelius,
[was] a centurion of [the] Cohort which is called Italian,

10:2
devout and fearing the God with all the household of him,
doing also alms many to the people
and praying the to God through all [times];

10:3
He saw in a vision clearly as if about hour [the] ninth [hour] of the day an angel the of God having come to him
and having said to him; Cornelius!

10:4
the And having looked intently on him and afraid having become he said;
What is it,
Lord?
He said then to him;
The prayers of You
and the alms of you have ascended as a memorial before the God.

10:5
And now do send men to Joppa
and do yourself summon Simon someone
who is called Peter;

10:6
He lodges with a certain Simon a tanner,
whose is [the] house by [the] sea

10:7
When then had departed the angel who is speaking the to him,
having called two of the servants of him and a soldier devout
of those attending to him,

10:8
and having related all things to them he sent them to the Joppa.

10:9
On the now next day when are journeying these and to the city are approaching,
went up Peter on the housetop to pray about hour [the] sixth.

10:10
He became then hungry
and was desiring to eat.
when were preparing however [some] of them
happened
upon him a trance,

10:11
and he beholds the heaven opened
and descending onto him certain certain as a sheet great
by four corners bound and upon upon the earth;

10:12
in which were all the quadrupeds and the beasts and the creeping things of the earth

10:13
And came a voice to him:
Having risen up Peter, do kill and do eat.

10:14
the And Peter said;
In no way, Lord;
for never I ate anything common or unclean.

10:15
And a voice [came] again for [the] second time to him:
What the God has cleansed, you yourself not do call common.

10:16
This now took place for three times
and immediately was taken up the vessel into the heaven.

10:17
While then in himself was perplexed the Peter what maybe would be the vision
that he had seen,
and behold the men who sent from the Cornelius having inquired for the house the of Simon, stood at the gate;

10:18
And having called out they were asking if Simon who is being called Peter
here is lodged.

10:19
the And Peter thinking over the vision
said to him the Spirit:
Behold men three are seeking

10:20
But having risen do go down
and do proceed with them
nothing doubting,
since I myself have sent them.

10:21
Having gone down then Peter to the men who
sent from the
Cornelius to
him he said; Behold
I myself am whom

10:22
the And they said;
Cornelius a centurion, a man righteous and fearing the God
being well testified to then by all the nation of the Jews, was divinely instructed by an angel holy
to send for you to the house of him
and to hear declaration from you.

10:23
Having called in therefore them he lodged [them].
On the now next day having risen up the he went forth he went forth with them,
and some of the brothers those from the Joppa went with him.

10:24
and On the now next day he entered into the Caesarea;
the and Cornelius was expecting them
having called together the relatives of him and the close friends.

10:25
as then was the entering the Peter,
having met with him the Cornelius having fallen at the feet worshiped [him].

10:26
the But Peter lifted up him saying;
do rise up;
also I myself myself a man am.

10:27
And talking with him he entered
and he finds having gathered together many,

10:28
He was saying then to them;
You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a man Jewish to unite himself or to come near to [someone] foreign;
And to me the God has shown nothing common
or unclean to call man,

10:29
Therefore also without objection I came having been summoned.
I inquire therefore, for what reason did you summon me?

10:30
And the Cornelius was saying; Ago four days
until this the hour I was fasting at the at the ninth hour praying in the house of mine,
and behold a man stood before me in apparel bright

10:31
and said;
Cornelius, has been heard your the prayer
and the alms of you was remembered before the God.

10:32
do send therefore to Joppa
and do yourself call for Simon
who is called Peter;
He lodges in [the] house of Simon a tanner by [the] sea

10:33
At once therefore I sent to you,
you yourself then well did having come.
Now therefore all we ourselves before the God are present
to hear all the [things] commanded you by the Lord.

10:34
Having opened then Peter the mouth he said;
Of a truth I grasped that not is One who shows partiality the God,

10:35
but in every nation which is fearing Him and working righteousness acceptable to Him is.

10:36
the word that He sent to the sons of Israel
evangelising [about] peace through Jesus Christ —
He is of all Lord,

10:37
You yourselves know the having come declaration through all the Judea,
having begun from the Galilee after the baptism
that proclaimed John:

10:38
Jesus the from Nazareth, how anointed Him the God Spirit with Holy and with power,
who went about
doing good and healing all
those being oppressed by the devil,
because the God was with Him;

10:39
And we ourselves are witnesses
of all things that He did in both the region of the Jews and in
Jerusalem; whom also they executed having hanged [Him] on a tree.

10:40
This One the God raised up on the third
day and gave Him revealed to become

10:41
not [revealed] to all the people, but to [the] witnesses who chosen beforehand by the God to us
who we ate with and we drank with Him after the rising of Him out from [the] dead;

10:42
And He instructed us to proclaim to the people
and to testify fully that He is the [One] appointed by the God
[as] judge of living and dead.

10:43
To Him all the prophets bear witness [that] forgiveness of sins receiving
through the name of Him everyone who is believing in Him.

10:44
Still when is speaking the Peter the declarations these
fell the Spirit the Holy upon all those hearing the word.

10:45
And were amazed the from [the] circumcision believers
as many as had come with the Peter,
that even upon the Gentiles the gift of the Holy the Spirit

10:46
They were hearing for when they are speaking in tongues and magnifying the God.
Then answered the

10:47
surely not ever the water is able
to withhold anyone the not to baptize these
who the Spirit the Holy have received as also [have] we ourselves?

10:48
He commanded now them in the name of Jesus Christ to be baptized
of the Lord. Then him him to remain days some.

